FANS’ CHOICE . . . Devon Chafa was rewarded for a fine season by the CAPS United supporters at special function in Harare yesterday Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter GRITTY midfielder and Soccer Star of the year finalist Devon Chafa has capped an enterprising season with yet another award after he was voted the CAPS United Player of the Year by the club’s fans. Chafa, one of the most consistent players not only at his team but in the entire league throughout the season had been among the favourites for place on the Castle Lager Premiership’s Soccer Stars calendar. Although he made it among the top, 11 Chafa will only know whether he features on the top three or won the top gong when the Castle Soccer Star is unveiled at an awards ceremony next week. But yesterday, Chafa was left on a high after his team’s supporters reckoned that he had been their best player for the just ended season. A seasoned midfielder, who has previously seen Premiership duty with Eagles, Dynamos and Black Rhinos, Chafa was presented with the award at a colourful ceremony organised by the club’s fans in Harare yesterday. Bustling striker and the league’s top goal scorer with 17 goals Dominic Chungwa was voted the first runner up. Chungwa just like Chafa is also on the Castle Soccer Stars calendar. The CAPS United fans, who have been rewarding their players with monthly awards throughout the year, also selected Godwin Goriati with the second runner up award. In accepting his award, Chafa saluted the fans and said their gesture would always motivate the players. “To be playing good football is always a good thing but when your efforts are appreciated like this, it is even more encouraging. I would like to salute the fans for being with us through thick and thin. These are the guys who make football a beautiful game. We have been through some ups and downs but the fans stood with us and I would like to say thank you. “I am very happy to be nominated as the best player at the team. I owe everything to the team without my team mates I am nothing. I would also want to salute the technical team and everyone at CAPS United,” Chafa said. Chafa seems to have been getting better with age and has been receiving regular call-ups to the warriors. He was also one of the star players for CAPS United during their flirtation with the Champions League group stage. The enterprising midfielder was also instrumental in CAPS United’s late onslaught on the Premiership title race which was eventually won by FC Platinum. During yesterday’s awards ceremony, the CAPS United fans also rewarded outgoing Premiership Soccer Star of the Year Hardlife Zvirekwi with the right back winning the team’s Player of the month for November. The CAPS United executive members and the whole technical team led by head coach Lloyd Chitembwe attended the event. Chitembwe grabbed the opportunity to heap praise on his players describing them as fighters who should walk with their tails up after finishing the season on fifth place. The CAPS United coach said the fact that his team had to constantly alter focus between the domestic Premiership and the Champions League and doing well on both fronts shows that the team is made up of good players who are able to handle pressure. “I want to congratulate you for your efforts. I want you to know that you are a special group of players who have done what all other CAPS United sides have failed to do. Despite not being able to defend the title, you still showed a lot of character and I want to salute you for being able to execute my ideas on the field of play,” Chitembwe said.