Gaba Primary School (Masvingo) troupe on stage Arts Correspondent The annual Jikinya Dance Festival finals held in Bulawayo at Amphitheatre last Friday lived up to their billing when 10 primary schools from all provinces showcased an assortment of traditional dances. The festival hosted by the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (NACZ) is aimed at encouraging children to appreciate and perform Zimbabwean traditional dances thus promoting and safeguarding Zimbabwe’s cultural intangible heritage. Schools showcased sterling performances that were a clear indication that they were investing in promoting Zimbabwean dances as well as working towards ensuring that varied cultures were appreciated and safeguarded. Gaba Primary School (Masvingo) clinched the first prize and received a floating trophy, monetary prize and gold medals for each of the participating children and their teachers. They also won the Prof Hope Sadza Trophy for Outstanding Common Dance. Mbimba 1 Primary School (Matabeleland South) came second and walked away with a floating trophy, monetary prize and gold medals for each of the participating children and their teachers. Chiedza Primary School (Midlands) took third position and received a floating trophy, monetary prize and Bronze Medals for each of the participating children and their teachers. On fourth position was Gaza Primary School (Manicaland) who got a floating trophy, monetary prize and copper medals for each of the participating children and their teachers. Each school performed dances of their own choice as well Muchongoyo a dance that originated from Zululand (Nguniland) in South Africa during King Tshaka’s reign. NACZ public relations officer Catherine Mtombeni said they were happy that the event was a success. “We were pleased by the great numbers we witnessed at the festival it shows that people now appreciate more our cultural programmes. This event was a success a huge success and we thank everyone who partnered with us,’ she said. NACZ inaugurated Jikinya Dance Festival in 2002. The festival is a partnership programme between NACZ and National Association of Primary Heads (NAPH) and is proudly sponsored by Delta Corporation.