Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FC Platinum, still basking in the glory of winning their first ever league championship, have now shifted their eyes to the inaugural Castle Challenge Cup in a winner takes all tie against bitter rivals Harare City at their favourite Mandava ground this Saturday. The Premiership champions’ spokesperson Chido Chizondo said they are keen to put the icing on the cake by winning the contest which features league winners and the holders of the country’s major knock-out tournament, the Chibuku Super Cup. FC Platinum booked their place in the Challenge Cup after winning the championship two points ahead of giants Dynamos last Saturday. But amid the excitement, Chizondo said the platinum miners will not be persuaded to relax. Their coach Norman Mapeza had to rush back to his team after taking part in the Soccer Star of the Year selection process in Harare on Tuesday. “The Castle Challenge Cup is the focus at the moment. We are not leaving anything to chance because the season is not over yet for us. This is going to be a normal working week for the team and the guys are preparing hard for the match. “Remember how strong our rivalries with Harare City are since that Chibuku Super Cup final (in 2014). Since then the matches have always been tough, they always put extra effort against FC Platinum so we are expecting an exciting game. “But as usual we are focused. It is important to continue winning silverware. We have to finish on a high. It is also important to win the cup to make our mark as the Premier Soccer League celebrates its 25 years,” said Chizondo. FC Platinum are on cloud nine after breaking the title duck and they want the Castle Challenge Cup to be the cherry on top. The celebrations in Zvishavane are likely to continue until the festive holidays with the supporters and the club having lined up separate functions to revel in their success. The platinum miners have also lined up an awards ceremony to recognise the most outstanding players for 2017 before the team breaks for the Christmas holidays. In comparison, it’s all gloom at Harare City after the Sunshine Boys were relegated on the last day. The club’s coach Philani “Beefy” Ncube said they have since accepted their fate and are now gearing to give their fans something to cheer their heavy hearts.