Dr Sacrifice Chirisa  Mental Health Matters If you take a medicine in a way that is different from what the doctor prescribed, it is called prescription drug abuse. It could be; Taking a medicine that was prescribed for someone else Taking a larger dose than you are supposed to. Taking the medicine in a different way than you are supposed to. This might be crushing tablets and then snorting or injecting them. Using the medicine for another purpose, such as getting high. The four classes of medication most commonly misused are: Pain killers namely; opioid based like Stop Pain and Tramadol .Sleeping tablets like diazepam and clonazepam used to treat anxiety and sleep disorders. Stimulants like methylphenidate used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) Cough mixtures like Histalix D and Bronchleer a.k.a Broncho. Prescription drug misuse can have serious medical consequences. Increases in prescription drug misuse over the last 10 years are reflected in increased emergency room visits, overdose deaths associated with prescription drugs and treatment admissions for prescription drug use disorders, the most severe form of which is addiction. Other signs of abuse include: Stealing, forging or selling prescriptions Taking higher doses than prescribed Excessive mood swings or hostility Increase or decrease in sleep Poor decision-making Appearing to be high, unusually energetic or revved up, or sedated Continually losing prescriptions, so more prescriptions must be written Seeking prescriptions from more than one doctor Teens and adults abuse prescription drugs for many reasons, such as: To feel good or get high To relax or relieve tension To reduce appetite or increase alertness To experiment with the mental effects of the substance To maintain an addiction and prevent withdrawal To be accepted by peers or to be social To try to improve concentration and academic or work performance Every medicine has some risk of side effects attached to it. Doctors take this into account when prescribing medicines hence people who abuse these drugs may not understand the risks. The medicines may not be safe for them, especially at higher doses or when taken with other medicines. People who are trying to stop abusing medicine might experience withdrawal symptoms like in opioid-based medicines listed below: Have pain in muscles and bones Get chills Throw up Have diarrhoea Feel nervous, angry, or very sad Be unable to sleep They will feel a very strong need and craving to take the drug. Because commonly abused prescription drugs activate the brain’s reward centre, it is possible to develop physical dependence and addiction. Treatment options for prescription drug abuse vary, depending on the type of drug used and your needs. But counseling, or sometimes psychotherapy, is typically a key part of treatment. Treatment may also require detoxification, addiction medication and recovery support. Talk with your doctor if you think you may have a problem with prescription drug use and get referred to a psychiatrist for help. Dr S.M. Chirisa is a passionate mental health specialist who holds an undergraduate medical degree and post graduate Master’s degree in psychiatry both from the University of Zimbabwe. He is currently working as a Senior Registrar in the Department of Psychiatry at Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals and is also the current national treasurer of the Zimbabwe Medical association (ZiMA). He can be reached at drsmchirisa@yahoo.com