Nyasha KNyasha K is one beautiful voice on Capitalk FM. Born Nyasha Mutizwa, the lady has been outstanding on the airwaves and she loves it. Below is her story:Q: How did you first get into the media industry?A: The media industry has been calling my name for a long time. I first got a taste of the media and entertainment industry after participating in a singing competition when I was 17.I loved the role that the media played in exposing opportunities to young people within arts and culture. I then studied Law with Media at undergraduate level. I was also a member of the media society at university which actually exposed me to broadcasting for the first time. Even though I m qualified to practice Law, something kept on calling me to media and ultimately Capitalk!Q: What would you say most motivates you to do what you do?A: I am motivated by the idea of one day becoming an authority in two very distinct fields &#8211; Law and Media.Q: What attracted you to work for Capitalk FM?A: I would say it is the idea of telling the Zimbabwe story from the viewpoint of the Hararian.I am very passionate about my city, so working for Harare s first commercial talk radio station is just right for me.I think it is about time we as Hararians really talk about those issues affecting this city and hold the right people accountable. It starts with a conversation and Capitalk is the perfect place to have that conversation.Q: Do you have any key mentors or people who deeply influenced you.A: Key mentors? My mother and father. Clich , I know, but there is no denying that those two people have shaped and continue to shape the person I am. To the second part of your question, I have been influenced by women who choose to stand up for what they believe in. I look up to women who choose not be told that they can only do one thing, that their place is in the kitchen and who refuse to conform to what society dictates.These women are the likes of Alicia Keys, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Angela Rye and so many others who are unapologetically themselves.Q: What sets you apart from other people in the media industry?A: What sets me apart is that I am complicated and multidimensional. I can talk about law, religion, love and relationships, music and all sorts. Let s talk about it!Q: What things do you not like to do?A: I do not like to deal with people that look like down upon women &#8211; misogynist, bigots and so forth.Q: If you could speak to yourself as a 10-year-old, what would you tell yourself?A: I would tell little Nyasha to stop worrying about image. Little Nyasha was so self conscious so I would tell her she is beautiful just the way she and that the world would accept and love herQ: What is your proudest achievement to date?A: Hearing my mum yelling Go Magumbo! with her voice echoing through the halls at my graduation ceremony, what a memory!My proudest achievement is knowing that I made my mother proud and I was on my way to becoming the woman she wanted me to be.Q: What do you work toward in your free time?A: Music is my first love so when I am free I am doing something that has to do with music. I love to sing, write songs, follow up on my favourite artists.I am also working on other music related projects so watch this space.Q: If you are sitting where you are a year from now, what will you celebrate.A: I will be celebrating a full year in broadcasting, who would have thought! I would be looking back at the crazy for stage audition process, my very first solo broadcast, my first interview and the fact that I put my mind to something and I did it.