Makomborero Marumisa- OyOsTech News Nearly every company on the planet is looking to find how they can reach the next level. Whilst hours can be consumed trying to figure out how their voice can be heard in every crevice there is a method that most often overlook and that is blogging. In itself, it is a dynamic business tool that if used correctly can elevate any business from a regular corner store to possibly a fully functioning enterprise. It provides a wide array of benefits that traditional advertising fails to provide such as interactivity, consistency, regular updates and traction in popularity on a whole new platform. This is an investment aimed at bringing your business to that next level. Blogs can also be designed as detailed dynamic websites allowing you to assign authors to write articles while the tech handles the design maintenance and advertising banners or google adsense to monetise the site. Blogs back then used to be basic one column layout with users simply chronologically laying out their stories but nowadays with newer technologies, this concept is now being combined with web programming to produce interactive multi column blogs with sections to cater for adverts, banners, business sections, menus etcTo begin with, blogging helps reach out to potential and current customers. Knowing the kind of thoughts swirling in the minds of potential customers is vital in providing them with exactly what they are looking for. Blogs offer the platform to leave comments, reviews as well as survey platforms in which visitors can ask certain questions or leave a rating. Apart from customer feedback, clients have an outlet that provides them with current, up-to-date information about your brand. All this makes it easier for your message to stick in their heads. If you always have something new to offer, then people are likely to stick around and listen as the scope of your audience gets wider and wider and your company s voice gets louder and louder.One other really good reason to consider having a blog is that it increases search engine traffic &#8211; a concept known as Search Engine Optimisation . Basically when someone types in your company on search engines such as Google or Bing, the chances that your brand will pop up among the top results get higher over time. Forbes likens this concept to fishing. The more hooks you place in the water the more likely you are to catch fish. Every post you add to your blog is like adding another hook in the water. Eventually, as this continues, your company becomes eligible for more and more keywords that people type in appearing under more elusive searches. Your company may either graduate to being added to trending and suggested searches or feature under blanket searches such as Top furniture companies in Zimbabwe for example. Search engines love content that is always changing and updating on the regular.Having a blog can at times take away the cold edgy feel associated with corporations and give it a living, breathing core that reflects the company s ideals vision and functions. You feel more at home associating with a brand that listens to you and responds when you need it it s like giving it a personality. Just like real (or good) personalities, consistency is necessary and it helps to really market your brand effectively and it takes clear well laid out planning to really take advantage of this effect. Interactivity is a form of marketing that no billboard can match up to and people relate more easily to with your brand. As marketing rivals, having a flyer and a blog is like the difference between lighting a candle and warming up to a classic wood-burning fireplace. Bring your brand to life by blogging and really reaching out to your consumer base.Having a blog also helps create opportunity for sharing. Every single post that goes up onto your blog creates an opportunity for all readers to share your content. People can easily do this by using handles to Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube or even their own possibly popular blog. It s free marketing! Plus, it validates you as a reputable company. Building up online chatter gets you on the map and more recognisable amongst other more reputable brands. One more thing to note is that people love trending topics and soon you ve got yourself an entire online community talking about you. That is the ultimate goal of marketing and it s an easy, inexpensive way to get people talking about your brand.Now that you ve figured out why you should have a blog here is how. You might be pleased to find out that having a well-running and aesthetically pleasing blog site is not as difficult as you might think. For any company, one would need to have one professionally done and in Zimbabwe there is more than one way to do that. A good option is ZIMHOST Webdesigners, a 14 time ICT company of the year award holder, and you can have your new fully functioning business blog for $100. ZIMHOST also does barter deals where they can design a free blog for you in exchange for advertising on the blog itself when launched.Basically most of the work will be in the hands of the web designers whilst you are free to run your company on the side. It s simple and a viable option in order to raise your company to that level you ve always envisioned for it from the very beginning. ZIMHOST Webdesigners, 1st Floor, Angwa Hse, Cnr Angwa/ G. Silundika, 0771 111 222, 04 796528, [email&#160;protected], www.zimhosts.com&nbsp;