Dr MadeElita Chikwati Senior Agriculture Reporter Government is finalising the second and final crop and livestock assessment report for the 2016/ 17 farming season, as early indications point to food self-sufficiency. The report would be tabled before Cabinet once completed. The country expects over two million tonnes of maize. The high yields in most crops have been attributed to Government input programmes, including Command Agriculture, hard work by farmers from all sectors and good rains received during the season.Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development Minister Dr Joseph Made yesterday confirmed that the final crop and livestock assessment report was being prepared. The agriculture sector has performed exceedingly well and even President Mugabe recently spoke of a bumper harvest, he said. We expect a bumper harvest not only in maize, but in most crops. The estimated maize production, including all sectors, will exceed two million tonnes, tobacco will be around 150 million kilogrammes and cotton will exceed 120 million kilogrammes. The biggest growth will be recorded in maize, sorghum, pearly millet, groundnuts, sweet potatoes and Irish potatoes and there will be surplus in terms of the crop requirements and self-sufficiency. Crops expected to record a deficit are round nuts, sugar beans and cowpeas.Mashonaland West is leading in maize production, followed by Mashonaland Central, Midlands, Mashonaland East and Manicaland. Mashonaland West and Midlands are leading in sweet potatoes production. All provinces have done well in terms of food security, including Masvingo, said Dr Made. A2 and A1 farmers, because of the special maize programme (Command Agriculture), have done well. In small grains, obviously communal areas do very well. The land reform and agrarian reform are performing well because of the intervention by Government in terms of Command Agriculture. Dr Made said cotton was also doing well, with 50 percent of the crop that has been delivered so far falling under grade A. Credit should be given to the Presidential Inputs Scheme, he said. The absence of the mid-season drought contributed to the good yields of all crops across the country. &nbsp;