Emmanuel Makandiwa And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother (Genesis 35:1) There is a formula that keeps a person above his circumstances and that is what we are discussing. There is need for one to get an understanding of the place where he is. Before you can move on to the next place, understand the place where you are. Before elevation can take place you have to understand that there is need for you to know the difference between the two places; where you are coming from and where you are going.Otherwise promotion doesn t make any sense if you do not have a revelation of the difference of the two places. Where you are is a place that requires your understanding.If you cannot understand the difference between where you are and where you want to go there is no need for you to be taken from where you are. You will not appreciate the elevation and promotion because you cannot see the difference. The only way God can promote you is when you have properly understood where you are.Sometimes you have to also understand that where you are is an inferior position and you deserve a higher position. That is the only time God can move you from where you are to another place. A proper diagnosis of a place is needed before you move from one place to another place. Understand the previous place before you can move to a new place.In the scripture above, Jacob is in a place where he doesn t belong and God is inviting him to a place he once visited. God is inviting him to Bethel where He once visited him when they entered into a covenant when Jacob was fleeing from his brother Esau. God is inviting Jacob to a previous experience where he was once before.Why would God invite a person to the same place over and over again? He is a God of all places and He s omnipresent. He s everywhere at the same time and yet He seems to be favouring certain places over certain places. Discern and find out places that are favourable to God. God works better in certain environments, He favours certain places and regions more than other places.Even in the scripture you find that there is a place that Jesus went to and He could not do many mighty works because of their unbelief which was in their environment. Jesus being God He could not do certain miracles in certain places. He could not remain in such places but He departed in such intense environments into more relaxed environments where He performed more and mightier miracles.If Jesus is in the business of analysing and discerning places and if the place is not good for Him He moves away from it. This is God doing this before we can talk of you. If He tries something in one place and it s not working He knows it s not His fault but the fault of the environment and He moves away. He tries it again and it works in another place. So why do you keep on trying the same thing in the same place and then you keep on blaming yourself if you don t get results.Most people are highly gifted and talented but what is lacking is a conducive environment. There are times you keep on praying for your own self- deliverance and yet what requires a deliverance is the place. It s one thing when you are possessed and its another thing when the place where you are is possessed. It s one thing when you are the one that needs deliverance and it s another thing when it is the place that need deliverance. Jesus could not perform in certain regions, don t forget that. Especially when you would want to be like Jesus then you will have to move from certain places.Imagine Jesus when He was young, He didn t become God when He was 18 years old, He was God before He was even born physically. But at a very young age they had to flee from one place to another place where there was safety, otherwise Jesus was going to be killed. They had to discern the place and there was danger in that environment. The angel of the Lord then told them to depart from the place and go to Egypt. The angel even advised them to remain there until he had brought them news.Places are supposed to be discerned, they are not the same. You need a revelation of places, understand where you are. There are times you can find yourself in wrong places and God can speak to you. Being in a place that is not your place and God speaking to you in that same place, that is not a confirmation that you belong to that place.Jacob was not in Bethel and yet the God of Bethel was talking to him and inviting him to Bethel. The fact that you can hear God in that place doesn t mean He is a God of that place. Therefore, if you hear the voice of God where you are, it s not a confirmation that you belong there.You can hear the voice of God whilst you are sick but the voice of God is not a confirmation that you have to remain sick. Sickness becomes a place, it s a condition and yet you can be in that condition and God can speak to you in that condition inviting you to a place of health.Job was sick and God spoke to him. He was sick physically and yet his spirit was very effective. He was not sick spiritually for he could hear God s voice. Hearing the voice of God whilst you are sick doesn t confirm that you have to remain in that condition.God can speak to you whilst you are broke but its not a confirmation that God favours broke people. God can speak to you whilst you are poor, you don t have money in your pocket; it s not a confirmation that God is attracted by your lack of money. You can hear God from a place that doesn t belong to you. The voice of God comes to invite you and bring you out of places where you don t belong. That is the function of the voice of God, it brings you out of your miseries. God speaks you out, He talks you out of your situation.Feedback: https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwahttps://twitter.com/prmakandiwahttps://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwa/Helpline: +263 4 339 341[email&#160;protected] mailto:[email&#160;protected]