A commuter omnibus rammed a stationary haulage truck, killing eight people near Dema Police Station in Seke yesterday morning. (Picture by Wilson Kakurira)Lovemore Meya and Abigail Mawonde The death toll in the Dema commuter omnibus accident which occurred on Monday has risen to 10, after two of the three survivors died in hospital. The commuter omnibus, which was on its way from Hwedza to Harare, rammed a haulage truck near Dema Police Station, killing six people on the spot.Two others died on admission at hospital on the same day. Chitungwiza Central Hospital public relations officer Mrs Nyaradzai Tasaranarwo confirmed the death of one of the victims. I can confirm that three of the survivors of the Dema accident were brought here yesterday (Monday) for treatment, however, one of them died on admission, she said. The victim succumbed to head injuries. The other two were transferred to Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals for treatment since our hospital automatically refers patients suffering from head injuries to specialists (neurologists) who are stationed at Parirenyatwa. There are indications that one of the accident victims transferred to Parirenyatwa Hospital died on admission. The hospital s public relations officer Mr Linos Dhire could neither confirm nor deny the report. I am not aware of what could have happened to the patients at this moment since I have already left the office, she said. Unfortunately, we cannot get the details now as well since people from the records have also left office. Police chief spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba said yesterday that two of the deceased were the commuter omnibus driver Nemonic Ganganje (26), of Kuwadzana Extension in Harare and Coleen Mutsetsiwa (28) of Chakadenga Village, Chief Nenguwo, Marondera.She said the names of the other deceased persons would be announced in due course after their next of kin have been advised. The police have also provided names of the victims who died in a separate road accident that occurred on June 24 at the 34 kilometre peg along Harare Mutare Road.They are Loveness Sango (26) female, Charles Mudokwani (65) male, Eric Chirau (28) male, Magadalene Chizhande (38) male, Milton Shambira (50) male and an unknown female adult.The accident occurred at around 1530hrs when the driver of a Toyota Hiace, which was travelling towards Mutare with 23 passengers on board failed to control his vehicle due to speeding, veered off the road and overturned.