Cristiano RonaldoMADRID. &#8211; Real Madrid star Cristiano Ronaldo was yesterday accused of evading 14,7 million euros in tax through offshore companies, the latest footballer to fall foul of fiscal authorities in Spain. The 32-year-old, the world s highest-paid athlete according to Forbes magazine, follows in the steps of FC Barcelona forward and Argentina star Lionel Messi, who was found guilty of the same offence last year although the sums involved were allegedly smaller.The issue of tax evasion has caused anger in a country only just emerging from a damaging economic crisis that has seen countless people lose their jobs and inequalities rise.Ronaldo is accused of four crimes against the public treasury between 2011-14 . . . which involves tax fraud of 14 768 897 euros ($16,5m) , the office said in a statement. The accused took advantage of a company structure created in 2010 to hide income generated in Spain from his image rights from tax authorities, which is a voluntary and conscious breach of his fiscal obligations in Spain, it said.Prosecutors accuse the Portugal international of evading tax via a shell company based in the British Virgin Islands and another in Ireland, known for its low corporate tax rate.In addition, they say he only declared 11,5 million euros of Spanish-related income from 2011 to 2014, while what he really earned during that time was close to 43 million euros. And finally, they accuse him of voluntarily refusing to include 28,4 million euros in income linked to the sale of his image rights for the 2015 to 2020 period to a Spanish company.The football world in Spain has been rocked by charges of tax evasion or corruption pressed against some of its top stars.Messi was sentenced to a 21-month jail sentence and 2,09-million-euro fine last year for tax fraud.The prison term will likely be suspended as is common in Spain for first offences for non-violent crimes carrying a sentence of less than two years.The 29-year-old and his father Jorge Horacio Messi were found guilty of using companies in Belize, Britain, Switzerland and Uruguay to avoid paying taxes on 4,16 million euros of Messi s income earned from his image rights from 2007-09.The income related to Messi s image rights that was hidden includes endorsement deals with Danone, Adidas, Pepsi-Cola, Procter &amp; Gamble and the Kuwait Food Company.Former Barca defender Javier Mascherano also agreed a one-year suspended sentence with authorities for tax fraud last year. Brazil star and Barcelona forward Neymar and his parents are due to stand trial for alleged corruption over his transfer from Santos in 2013.Meanwhile, Ronaldo s CR7 brand is worth more than 100 million euros and is on a par with port in terms of its importance to Portugal, according to a marketing school. Along with port, Cristiano Ronaldo is the most well-known Portuguese product in the world, Daniel Sa, the director of the Portuguese Institute for Administration and Marketing (IPAM), said.Ronaldo s CR7 fashion label and other business ventures bring a huge amount of wealth into the country. &#8211; AFP.