Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter ZRP Queens have warned struggling Zvishavane Pirates to brace for a hiding when the two sides clash in a league match at Kandodo tomorrow morning. The police outfit coach Caleb Chakwamba was bubbling with confidence yesterday as he believes his side have better quality than their opponents. We are traveling to the mining town tomorrow and all we need are maximum points and a rugby scoreline. We did not do well in our two previous matches which we lost. We will give Zvishavane Queens all the respect they deserve but they must know that we are hungry for success and we are title contenders, so they must be prepared to have a tough time in their backyard, said Chakwamba.ZRP Queens lost two consecutive matches to Mbare-based Cyclone and Faith Drive, which is based in Mutare.Rutendo Madongorere, who is eyeing the Golden Boot after scoring seven goals in three matches, is expected to continue to lead the attack.She will be hoping to get assistance from midfield star Ruvarashe Mhuriro, Samkheliso Moyo, Alert Khumalo and Tafadzwa Tsunguro. Inline Academy, who are second on the log standings, will make the long trip from Bulawayo to Mutare for a date against Faith Drive. We are third on the log and our aim as the Southern Region champions is to win the league championship. Everybody wants to be number one and we are no exception. We have produced a number of players for the Mighty Warriors and that is a sign that we are a big and strong team that is capable of beating any team in the league, said Dela Sibanda, the team secretary.Inline boast of Mighty Warriors players Nobuhle Majila, Rejoice Kamupfumvuti and Privilege Mupeti. Mwenezana will be boosted by the return of Faith Chasi and Miranda Ncube. All the week five matches are set for tomorrow.Fixtures Tomorrow: Masvingo Queens vs Mufakose (Mucheke Stadium 1100hrs)Hearts of Oak vs Mwenezana (Barbourfields B Arena 1500hrs)Borrow Street Jets vs Correctional Services (Luveve B Arena 1500hrs)Conduit Soccer Academy vs Chipembere Queens (Madhodha Stadium 1300hrs)Faith Drive Queens vs Inline Academy (Nyamahuru High 1300hrs)Cyclone Stars vs New Orleans (Harare High 1300hrs) Zvishavane Pirates vs ZRP Queens (Kandodo Stadium 1100hrs)Street Set vs Blue Swallows (Barbourfields B Arena 1000hrs)