Team Big Family and We Support Orphans with some of the donated groceriesLovemore Meya Arts Reporter Hip-HOP crew Team Big Family (TBF) and We Support Orphans (WSO), last Saturday brought cheers and smiles to Bumhudzo Hospital Home for the elderly in Chitungwiza when they donated groceries and pills worth $300. TBF is an organisation whose main thrust is to uplift talent in every community. The donation was courtesy of WSO, a non profit-making organisation based in Harare that has been supporting the needy since 2014.The elderly had a good time as the group shared with them laughter and joy as well as cleaning the environment. Bumhudzo administrator, Major Chrisia Nyaruberu said they were delighted by the gesture shown by the group. We are very happy for the children who came to help us and clean the environment while they enjoyed having discussions with the elderly, said Major Nyaruberu.The home houses 19 males and 12 females who are taken there through the Social Welfare. Major Nyaruberu said they tried to do income generating projects, but all their efforts failed to yield good results. We had quite a number of projects we embarked on but they didn t yield expected results. The heat wave killed most of the chickens and rabbits that we were rearing. We are surviving on quarterly grants that we get from the Salvation Army Church, she said. Speaking at the handover ceremony, TBF founder Boss Chenge (born Chengetai Mashiringwani) said they were delighted to be part of the event. We have come here today as a group of singers and we are happy to do something towards our elderly. Although, we have not brought much, we are thankful to the Almighty for giving us this opportunity to remember you, he said.WSO president Aaron Hodza, better known as Dr Hodza said, We support orphans in the country and today we are delighted to have come to you as our mothers and fathers. It is a blessing to have you and today we came to give you something to eat. We also seek your prayers to guide us everywhere we go because we know that you are there to guide us, your prayers are a blessing. 