Paul Munyuki Sports Correspondent FROM being last season s whipping boys to winning every match this season, Mutare Sports Club have hit a new high as they are second on the Inter-City Rugby League standings. This is a side that lost all their games last season both home and away but five games into the rebranded league, the Mutare Shumbas find themselves unbeaten, second only to Old Georgians (also unbeaten) with a bonus point for all their wins.It is an exciting time for the eastern border city side, who have managed to draw bigger crowds for their home games and training sessions, and they have also drawn the attention of former Sables greats.Old Johannians, Gweru Sports Club, Police Defenders, Bulldogs and Highlanders have all fallen at the hands of the Shumbas a side made up largely of schoolboys who travel for their away games in a pick-up truck.This is the first time since 2002 that a non-traditional rugby club has been in the top two, the last being Varsity under Cyprian Supa Mandenge 15 years ago.But Mutare coach McKenzie Munetsi knows there is still a lot to be done. We have termed the next part of our campaign Winter is Coming because we are playing all the traditional powerhouses in winter, he said. Old Georgians, Harare Sports Club, OH and Mat land Warriors make up the list. We want to upset just one of those big teams, we are not asking for much. A win against one of the big teams is all we are looking for and if they blink, we will be very happy to punish them. We can take care of OMs. We have been playing the weak sides or some at par with us. We have beaten some of the teams we lost to last year like Old Johannians and Police Defenders at their home. However, our boys are so excited and we believe we have what the big teams have. I am sure people appreciate where we come from. We were underdogs, no one gave us a chance, and we are not under pressure. Of late a number of former Sables greats, including flanker Prayer Chitenderu and winger Augustine Mberi, have been helping Munetsi, something he appreciates. This is something I value 150 percent because they are not being paid to do this, it s just for the love of the youngsters, for the love of the game. Things have changed at Mutare, the community is now coming to watch our practice matches, he added. There has been a change of attitude because now the youngsters challenge the national team players and don t see them as monsters on the field. 