PRESIDENT Mugabe this afternoon addresses thousands of Zanu-PF supporters at Sakubva Stadium in Mutare during the second leg of the Presidential Youth Interface Rallies launched in Mashonaland East province on June 2 at Rudhaka Stadium in Marondera.The Herald gives you live updates of this important event. Stay logged in and participate in the discussion through the Disqus Comments platform below. UPDATES: Costa Mano, Samuel Kadungure, PHOTOGRAPHERS: Wilson Kakurira, Innocent Makawa, PICTURE EDITOR: Joseph Murisi, PROOFREADING: Simiso Mlevu, ONLINE EDITOR: Happiness ChikwanhaPresident Mugabe is also scheduled to open the Dangamvura Community Information Centre in Mutare this morning.10:37 &#8211; A group of Zanu-PF supporters is keeping guests entertained here singing revolutionary songsAfter officially opening the information centre President Mugabe will proceed to Sakubva Stadium where he is expected to address thousands who have already filled the venue to capacity. 10:53 - Thousands of Zanu-PF supporters have thronged Sakubva Stadium, and the venue is already full with thousands of other supporters still queuing outside. Various musical groups are attending the huge crowd. Information Minister Dr Chris Mushohwe and Zanu PF secretary for Youth Affairs Cde Kudzi Chipanga are already at the venue.10:55 - The Mozambican delegation led by the Manica Governor Cde Alberto Ricardo Mondlane has arrived at Sakubva Stadium.11:34 - Dignitaries, among them Government ministers and Zanu-PF politburo members and party supporters have now gathered at Mutare Aerodrome awaiting the arrival of President Mugabe.11:41 - President Mugabe is expected to arrive to officially open the Dangamvura Community Information Centre any moment now.11:52 - Zanu-PF supporters wave flags in anticipation of President Mugabe&#8217;s arrivalZanu-PF Secretary of Youth Affairs Kudzai Chipanga says the Presidential Youth Interface Rallies came following a realisation that not all youths managed to come and meet President Mugabe during the Million-Man March held in 2016.11:57 - Vice Presidents Phelekezela Mphoko and Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa have arrived at Dangamvura.&nbsp;Defence Minister Dr Sydney Sekeramayi with Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa. &#8211; Picture by Hatred Zenenga.12:05 &#8211; President Mugabe has arrived and is accompanied by First Lady Dr Grace MugabePresident Mugabe arrives to open the Dangamvura Community Information Centre.12:15 &#8211; President Mugabe has just officially opened the Dangamvura Community Information Centre!12:18 &#8211; The Head of State and Government is now in a briefing.12:20 - Supporters at Sakubva jumped off their seats dancing to the anthemic song Isu Gushungo Tinovada. Everyone just got psyched up.12:24 - Politburo member and Zanu PF Secretary for Administration Dr Chombo, Youth Minister Cde Patrick Zhuwao and Dr Joseph Made arrive at Sakubva Stadium. Ministers Mike Bimha, Kembo Mohadi and Sviour Kasukuwere have also arrived. Dendera music maestro Sulumani Chimbetu is now on stage entertaining the crowd. President Mugabe is visiting all provinces to interact with youths under the banner, Presidential Youth Interface Rallies . He started with Mashonaland East last week and today is in Manicaland. His next stop is in Masvingo. 12:42 - Cabinet Ministers in attendance at the Community Information Center include Dr Mushohwe, Dr Sekeramayi, Mandi Chimene and Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri.12:46 - Information Communication Technology, Postal and Courier Services Minister Supa Mandiwanzira is now addressing the thousands of supporters who are in attendance.Meanwhile the Zanu-PF Youth League set June 30 for President Mugabe s third leg of the Youth Interface Rallies in Masvingo, with the event expected to coincide with the launch of a massive voter registration campaign by the revolutionary party. 12:51 &#8211; Cde Mandiwanzira says Dangamvura Post Office today is one of the 80 built in the last six months around the country . He says the Post Office had become an eyesore. His ministry has also installed 17 workstations. He also says 1200 schools will have internet installed starting this month.12:53 &#8211; Cde Mandiwanzira also praises Dr Grace Mugabe for taking care of the President. President Mugabe will today present computers to several schools in Dangamvura.12;54 &#8211; Minister Mandiwanzira now invites President Mugabe to address the gathering.PRESIDENT MUGABE&#8217;S ADDRESS12:56 &#8211; President Mugabe starts by congratulating the ICT Ministry as well as the community of Manicaland.12:59 &#8211; His Excellency says the first Information Center was in Murombedzi (Mashonaland West) and his hope is that the ICT Ministry should work hand in hand with the education ministry to fulfill the national goals. He laments the abuse of the internet whereby some young people are copying foreign cultures as well as abusing others using online media platforms.President Mugabe and First Lady Dr Amai Grace Mugabe arrive at Dangamvura ICT center ahead of the Presidential Youth Interface rally at Sakubva Stadium.13:05 - President Mugabe says Zanu-PF is united and those with ambition to lead should know how to seek leadership in a proper manner. He says it is an issue he will address at the Sakubva rally. He praises the ICT Ministry and POTRAZ (Post and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority) for funding the forth-coming installation of Internet in schools.13:10 - President Mugabe thanks the ICT Ministry for choosing him to open the community Information Centre adding that the centre should be taken care of.13:13 - President Mugabe is now presenting computers to different school heads from Dangamvura.13:16 - The proceedings have come to an end here at the Dangamvura Information Center and President Mugabe leaves for Sakubva Stadium.The bumper crowds witnessed at the two Presidential Youth Interface Rallies held so far testify to Zanu-PF s mobilisation capacity and show why opposition parties want a coalition to face the revolutionary party amid projections by think-tanks, scholars and analysts that 2018 will deliver a runaway victory for Zanu-PF.Sakubva Stadium is filled to capacity.13:31 &#8211; Meanwhile dignitaries troop into Sakubva stadium. Among them are Vice Presidents Mnangagwa and Mphoko.13:39 &#8211; President Mugabe has arrived at the stadium accompanied by the First Lady Dr Amai Mugabe and Cde Kudzai Chipanga as they wave to the crowd in the stadium.Some supporters have moved to occupy the turf as the terraces have been filled to the brim.14:07 &#8211; At Sakubva Stadium Zanu &#8211; PF Youth League political commissar Innocent Hamandishe is the Master of Ceremony.14:10 - A Mozambican traditional dance group is showcasing its dances as the crowd wait for President Mugabe&#8217;s address.14:16 &#8211; Meanwhile Cde Hamandishe invites Cde Chipanga to introduce members of the Politburo.Thousands more are still trying to find their way into Sakubva stadium.14:25 - Cde Chipanga says President Mugabe is the &#8220;angel&#8221; Gabriel and won&#8217;t change. He says they are two issues which include the need for the youths to register to vote. And the second being to vote for Angel Gabriel Mugabe!14:28 - &#8221;We thank you &#8230; for introducing various projects in the province&#8230; The youths need programmes aimed towards their needs especially farming inputs. Youths are grateful for the dualization of the Chirundu-Beitbridge road but we hope we don&#8217;t see other nationals taking even the menial jobs,&#8221; says Cde Chipanga. He urges President Mugabe to acquire all white owned farms in Manicaland.A group of those who failed to make it into the stadium are seen here watching from a lorry (edited).14:31 - &#8221;I thank Morgan Tsvangirai for accepting defeat before the elections because when one threatens people with violence it&#8217;s a sign of a defeated man,&#8221; asserts Cde Chipanga.&#8220;Your excellency 2018 should deal a decisive blow to all opposition parties and they have done us a favour by forming a coalition.14:36 - Dr Grace Mugabe is now at the podium. She chants party slogans urging Zanu-Pf to remain united . She says youths should refuse to be used by seniors in the party for selfish gains.14:38 &#8211; &#8220;The unity of purpose being shown here should be maintained because that is the way we can keep the party and country together. I hope these meetings will leave the provinces more united and I pray God blesses you,&#8221; says Amai Mugabe.14:50 - President Mugabe takes to the podium after the crowd danced to Jah Prayzah&#8217;s hit &#8220;Mdhara Achauya&#8221; and he emphatically says &#8220;Mdhara Auya!&#8221; The President thanks the other wings of the party for supporting the Presidential Youth Interface Rallies . . .RELIGION AND CULTUREEARLIER ON: Vice President Mphoko (L) with Cde Kudzai Chipanga.14:54 &#8211; &#8220;The war of liberation would not have been won if we were not united. We now have the land as well as freedom . . .you saw our chiefs taking us through a traditional rite but we did not denounce Christianity and I want to assure Bishop Manhanga and others that this religion can also add onto our own beliefs,&#8221; says President Mugabe.President Mugabe and Dr Amai Grace Mugabe just before the commissioning of the Dangamvura ICT Center earlier today.14:59 &#8211; &#8220;We did not denounce those that came with the Bible but we encouraged them to acknowledge our freedom and independence!Some supporters had to risk watching the proceedings at Sakubva Stadium from a mobile telecommunication base-station pole after failing to find space in the stadium.15:03 &#8211; When we won independence we did not rest on our laurels but we told ourselves that it is a weapon that we can now use to uplift our people.15::06 &#8211; &#8220;We looked at our country and sought our economy strengths and the land was the most important and that is why we embarked on the land reform,&#8221; says President Mugabe.WAR VETERANSPresident Mugabe addressing thousands during the commissioning of the Dangamvura ICT center this afternoon.He says, &#8220;Let there be no war veterans who claim that we did not do anything for them because when we resettled people after independence we ensured 20 per cent of the land acquired would go to veterans. Even when we expropriated land, we gave them.&#8221;Vice President Mnangagwa with Cde Supa Mandiwanzira.15:10 &#8211; &#8220;We also acknowledge that there are other people who who were detained during the war as well as ordinary people who gave their all for the cause. Let&#8217;s stop denigrating and forgetting the efforts of the government. We had goals and these aims have always been about helping the people.It was a bumper crowd at Sakubva stadium.15:20 &#8211; President Mugabe explains that Command Agriculture and the presidential inputs scheme gave the country a bumper harvest. &#8221;Today we can not forget that like what others want. Some war veterans were included in the Civil Service while others were included in the army, police, the Central Intelligence Organization and even the Correctional Services (Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Service) and headed by veterans of the war.President Mugabe flanked by Minister Supa mandiwanzira (L) and First Lady Dr Amai Grace Mugabe before addressing thousands of Zanu-PF supporters at Sakubva Stadium Friday afternoon.15:31 - People are still harvesting the corn and now we are concentrating on wheat so that we stop depending on imports from (other countries). 15:32 - We were never bought to fight our seniors like Joshua Nkomo . . .I implore you not to be bought off by ministers so that you support them.Earlier on . . .Minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri (in red) arrive for the Manicaland Presidential Youth Interface Rally at Sakubva Stadium.15:40 - President Mugabe thanks the chiefs for showing the youth how to perform traditional rites urging them to continue safeguarding the country&#8217;s traditions.DIAMONDS15:41 - I know Manicaland province has grievances against the Chinese regarding the share ownership scheme. i was made to walk with a dummy cheque. We had our disagreement and that is why government has taken over (diamond mining). They went to court but lost and I promise that when we start mining those promises will be fulfilled.UNITY IN THE PARTY 15:45 - I want to thank the youths for the Million Man March and while others thought it would not be a success they were left with an egg on their faces. Now you have brought up this program (The Presidential Youth Interface Rallies programme) . . .I appreciate it. This is a sign that the youth are united, which I do not see amongst the seniors in the party.We thank you as Chiefs and please may you continue like that&#8230;.meanwhile seniors fighting for positions must do that without involving the youths. Give them assistance yes but don&#8217;t lead them astray. I thank you for the respect you give me.Cde Esau Mupfumi chats with Cde Mandi Chimene (center) and Mrs Mupfumi.15: 52 &#8211; President Mugabe wraps up his address by emphasizing unity, asserting that: &#8220;Once you have been bought you have sold out the party. If you (Chipanga), agree to be bought you are showing your lack of direction because those below you will be watching and will lose respect.&#8221;15:58 &#8211; Zanu-Pf provincial chairperson Samuel Undenge takes to the podium to give vote of thanks.16:05 - The Youth League has presented a portrait to the First family and this ends the proceedings here at Sakubva marking the end of our updates. Thank you for joining us. Join the discussion below on the topics raised by the President in his address. Good day. NB: MORE IMAGES WILL BE AVAILABLE SOON