Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter Black Rhinos . . . . . . (1)1Harare City . . . . . . . (1)2 HARARE City made a statement of intent that their revival is not a fluke when they ended log leaders Black Rhinos three-match unbeaten run in a Castle Lager Premiership soccer match at Morris Depot yesterday.The Sunshine Boys for the first time this season managed to win two consecutive matches after another victory against Triangle last weekend.They have actually picked up seven points in their last three outings a statistical quirk which was not so common for the City Fathers not so long ago.But new coach Philani Beefy Ncube and his troops are unstoppable at the moment.Yesterday they faced the high-riding army side and they stood up to be counted.The presence of Zimbabwean legends Peter Ndlovu, Benjani Mwaruwari, Ian Gorowa, George Mbwando and Harlington Shereni showed that Black Rhinos are the team of the moment.Chauya Chipembere were the first to come out of the woods with a goal by midfielder Cliff Chitsamba in the 31st minute.But Black Rhinos joy only lasted four minutes with the Harare City utility player Takudzwa Chimwemwe s long range shot restoring parity.The former Chibuku Super Cup champions, who were clearly in no-nonsense mood, got the breathing space four minutes after resumption when forward Martin Vengesayi cleverly beat his marker to put the ball past Rhinos goalie Herbert Rusawo.It was such a monumental collapse for the team of the moment which so far had only conceded four goals.The hosts could have snatched an equaliser, but were denied by Harare City s goalminder Maxwell Nyamupangedengu, who forced two fine saves towards the end, the damage had already been done.Black Rhinos coach Stanford Stix Mtizwa said the absence of his fearsome partnership of defenders Bruce Homora and Jameson Mukombwe contributed to the defeat.The duo are in South Africa with the national team for the COSAFA Cup tournament. My defence conceded some silly goals. We were missing the services of Bruce and Jameson, which was our biggest downfall. The injury of by Sydney Linyama (who limped off and was eventually replaced) also cost us the match. I think we have been playing very well and were looking forward to another victory, but when you are on top everyone wants to beat you. We will make amends and work on those silly mistakes. It is not the defenders who are to blame alone, the strikers also lacked the killer punch and didn t come to the party today, said Mtizwa.Harare City coach Ncube said they came to Morris Depot to do a clinical job which they successfully delivered. We were here for a mission which was accomplished. Records are meant to be broken. The two goals we scored were good. Playing against the log leaders, the pressure was on them, said Ncube who added that the victory is now history and is now looking forward to the next game against Hwange.TeamsBlack Rhinos: H. Rusawo, G. Mugabe, F. Banda, S. Jimu, S. Linyama (B. Chandisaita), T. Chigudu, D. Mudadi, C. Chitsamba, M. Kureva, B. Marere (L. Saramaya 57th minute), L. Chiwunga.Harare City: M. Nyamupangedengu, P. Mpelele, H. Chapusha, R. Uchena, E. Madhananga, T. Samanja, K. Kumwala (J. Jam 60th minute), T. Chimwemwe, M. Vengesayi (L. Muyambo 90th minute) W. Manondo, J. Chipangura (G. Kufandada 80th minute).