HAPPY PEOPLE . . . Black Rhinos players celebrate their third goal in a Castle Lager Premiership tie against Highlanders at Morris Depot yesterdayEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter Black Rhinos &#8230;&#8230;. .. (1) 3 Highlanders &#8230;.. .. 0 ARE Black Rhinos turning back the hands of time to exactly 30 years ago when they were last crowned champions of Zimbabwe football?The army side made another huge statement when they handed giants Highlanders a hiding at Morris Depot yesterday, but Chauya Chipembere coach Stanford Stix Mtizwa still wants more from his charges.Mtizwa was thrilled by a brace scored by Lot Chiwunga and another goal from the penalty spot by goalkeeper Herbert Rusawo, which took the army side back at the summit of the Premiership standings.Rhinos took the overnight control of the race, equal on 26 points with early pace-setters Ngezi Platinum Stars, who play Dynamos this evening at the National Sports Stadium. I am happy that my boys are matching all these big guys Dynamos, Highlanders and Chicken Inn. I want them to keep up the momentum. Maybe that would take us where we want. I have always said we want to run away from relegation, but if we keep winning then we would be talking of a top four finish, said Mtizwa.Chiwunga struck just before the half-time whistle when he headed home in a crowded box from a short corner-kick that was engineered by Milton Kureva and Jameson Mukombwe on the right.The former Warriors fringe man doubled his tally soon after the restart when goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda made a horrendous blunder, spilling a long range grounder from Mukombwe into the path of the advancing striker.It got worse for Bosso when referee Norman Matemera penalised defender Tendai Ndlovu, albeit harshly, after Chiwunga tumbled to the ground in a tussle for possession.Rusawo beat his opposite number Sibanda with a rising shot into the roof of the net. I think lately, we have been crying more about our strikers because mostly midfielders and defenders were scoring. Now that we have been working with the strikers, I think it is paying off, said Mtizwa. They are now scoring. We are still going to work on them to score more than two goals in a game especially Lot, he said.Highlanders had some good scoring opportunities, but Prince Dube somehow blew their best chance of the day over the bar in a one-on-one encounter with the goalkeeper on 57 minutes, with Rhinos still leading 2-0. We played football and they won the match, this is what happened today. We played very good football, we had very good combinations, everything was there, we created many chances, but the problem was that we did not score. And we made stupid mistakes in defence and that does not win you atches. In the first half we had two good chances to score and in the second half we had two to three good chances, said coach Elroy Akbay.Teams:Black Rhinos: H. Rusawo, J. Mukombwe, M. Kureva, S. Linyama, B. Homora, D. Mudadi, T. Chigudu, C. Chitsamba, R. Mwenga (L. Samaraya, 68th min), B. Marere (V. Mhandu, 86th min), L. Chiwunga (Y. Salima, 86th min)Highlanders: A. Sibanda, B. Phiri (G. Makaruse, 53rd min), H. Moyo, P. Mudhuwa, T. Ndlovu, T. Ngulube, S. Munawa, A. Gahadzikwa (K. Nadolo, 83rd min), R. Kutsanzira, P. Dube, R. Matema