Tendai Rupapa Senior Court Reporter Three suspected robbers who allegedly attacked people in Harare and Ruwa, killing four and seriously injuring eight others, have appeared in court facing fresh charges. Raymond Nyajina (21), Calvin Ruwanikwa (24) and Wilson Nyenyembi (22) appeared before Harare magistrate Ms Barbara Chimboza on Friday last week. They were remanded in custody to June 16 and advised to seek bail at the High Court.Nyajani is already in remand prison pending trial for murder and attempted murder, which he allegedly committed in connivance with five others two women and three men.Prosecutor Miss Tinotenda Ngara alleged that on April 18 at around 8pm, the trio approached Archiove Matambo a taxi driver &#8211; who was seated in his vehicle in the company of his girlfriend, Gloria Chingwena. Matambo was waiting for clients at Joina City in the city centre when the trio allegedly hired him to Ashdown Park.They posed as genuine passengers and paid the agreed fare before they left for Ashdown Park. According to the State, Matambo s girlfriend sat in the boot, giving space to the clients who occupied the passengers seats. It is the State s case that along the way, Nyenyembi suddenly grabbed Matambo from behind and choked him.He took out a knife and threatened to stab Matambo if he resisted their demands. The gang started assaulting Matambo, while Nyajina took control of the vehicle, it is alleged.Matambo managed to open the door and jumped off while the vehicle was in motion, leaving his girlfriend in the boot. The gang did not stop the vehicle and when they reached Warren Park, Chingwena managed to open the boot and jumped out.When Matambo and his girlfriend escaped, they left their mobile phones in the vehicle, which were later stolen by the trio. The suspected thieves later stripped and dumped the vehicle in Kuwadzana.On the second count, 21-year-old Nyajina is jointly charged with Nyenyembi. On April 28, the pair allegedly approached another taxi driver, John Kavhu (62), at the intersection of Albion and Chinhoyi streets in the city.They hired him on the pretext that they were going to Warren Park. When they got to Warren Park, the pair told Kavhu that they had reached their destination and he stopped the vehicle. Nyenyembi suddenly took out a knife and stabbed Kavhu once. They dragged him out of the vehicle and dumped him by the roadside.