Mr ChitsikoNyemudzai Kakore Herald Correspondent Command Agriculture should not be politicised as it is a Government initiative aimed at producing food for the country to achieve sustainable food security, Permanent Secretary for the Ministry of Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development, Mr Ringson Chitsiko, said yesterday. At least 38 000 hectares of land have so far been put under winter wheat, with Government expecting to surpass the 60 000-hectare target. Responding to questions from Members of the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Lands, Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development on winter and summer cropping season, Mr Chitsiko said $487 million had been secured for the 2017-18 cropping season. On Command Agriculture, the issue here is not about politicking, it is about producing for Zimbabwe enough food so that we do not import, he said. So, if you irrigate, you are the number one target and if you farm on dry land, you will be considered if you are a productive farmer. Command is about producing food productively, you must be able to repay. It is not charity. So, in terms of preparedness, one can only say that the remaining part are the heavens. Are we going to get adequate rains as we did in the 2016-17 season or not? As for the inputs, last year we were at $200 million this year we are at $480 million. Mr Chitisko said Government was going to establish input collection centres so that farmers receive their inputs on time, with September being the cut off date.He said fertiliser companies were being given the opportunity to supply farmers, but where there would be a deficit, Government had put in place mechanisms to import. The logistics in the just-ended season with respect to Command Agriculture season was a nightmare, he said. This year the local industries are working hand in glove with Government so that farmers receive inputs on time. This gives us enough time to identify problem areas so that they can be attended to on time. Mr Chitsiko said the cut off date for winter cropping and planting was June 28, but high moisture content in maize was preventing farmers from harvesting to free land for winter wheat.