Capitalk FM presenter Ruvimbo Chakoreka says he is driven by his desire to find solutions to various issues and ability to tackle challenging situations.The presenter says he believes these attributes will steer him as he does what he likes on his shows. He shares his story below:Q: How did you first get into the media industry? A: It actually all began at my local church when they held auditions for some media presentations that they were doing to announce church activities and this was in 2007Q: What would you say most motivates you to do what you do? A: My greatest drive to do the things that I do is based on my purpose for existence. I am created to give solutions that are present in my day.Q: What attracted you to work for Capitalk FM? A: Outside having a lovely logo, more seriously though, Capitalk represents a part of me that I had no platform to express and that is having open honest and intelligent conversations with people. In as much as I take time to produce these conversations, I continue to learn on how to be a better solution provider and Capitalk gave me that opportunity to do thisQ: Do you have any key mentors or people who deeply influenced I can safely say that I have had seasonal and permanent mentors in my life but my father and mother have been amazing as pillars of developing values and character that have helped me in the many circles of life. I also acknowledge my pastors Bishop Tudor and Pastor Chichi Bismark for spiritual guidance and inspiration and this has been key in building my focus and ability to pursue my purpose. My sister has been so supportive and my wife Nyasha always listens to my shows.Q: What sets you apart from other people in the media industry? A: I think some of the major attributes I carry are my voice and my ability to be flexible in various conversations that need to be done. In as much as a number others in the industry have specialised skills I have a simple policy BE A JACK OF ALL TRADES AND A MASTER OF ONE Q: What things do you not like to do? A: I think repeating myself over and over again is something I really don t like to do because it becomes very agitating.Q: If you could speak to yourself as a 10-year-old, what would you tell yourself? A: I would have told myself that don t worry about what the world says about you because you are not as good as people say you are but you are as GREAT as who God says you are. Never ever give up and you will be an amazing success if only you believe.Q: What is your proudest achievement to date? A: I think among the many memorable days I believe when I was able to host the United Nations Day Against Racial Discrimination Debate in 2008, which was held at Prince Edward High School. It really was a privilege to have had the opportunity to contribute to a relevant social cause with my ability to speak.Q: What do you work toward in your free time? A: Well free time is actually a myth&#8230;I would say what I do to occupy my time is I am a marketing consultant, voice over recording artist, love to watch and play soccer, rugby and cricket. I love spending time with friends.Q: If you are sitting where you are a year from now, what would you celebrate? A: I would say I have been able to get through one year of doing something I am passionate about, which is sports.I would also say I have become a better and more knowledgeable person in the various areas that I was challenged to deal with.