Sports Reporter SPORTS Commission chairperson Edward Siwela says they have made progress in their search for a substantive director-general. The position fell vacant following the retirement of Charles Nhemachena last year after serving in that capacity for a decade. Joseph Muchechetere is the acting director-general. After advertising for the position in April, Siwela yesterday said interviews have been conducted and the board will deliberate on the recommendations when they meet on June 16. The progress that has been made is that interviews were conducted. And where we are now is that the committee that conducted interviews has made its recommendation to the board. The board meets this June on the 16th to deliberate on the recommendation of the committee and the process requires that once the board has actually agreed recommendation is made to the minister (of Sport and Recreation). As you may be aware, in terms of the act, the director general is appointed by the SRC board subject to the approval of the minister. So it s not a short process, it s a long process and that s where we are. We are at a position where the board will deliberate on this, the recommendation of the committee on the 16th and thereafter recommendation will be sent to the minister, said Siwela. Siwela said once the board makes its decision they will submit the shortlisted candidates to the minister. The advert went out, people did apply, shortlisting was done and individuals have been interviewed and the results will be known shortly after these are submitted to the minister. Once the board has made its decision there is nothing to take long about. The only thing is the board meet at scheduled time and that s why this thing is being considered by the board at its scheduled meeting. But otherwise immediately after the board s meeting the recommendation of the board will be sent through to the minister, said Siwela. Part of the director-general s responsibilities, who will report to the board are: Providing overall leadership to the day-to-day of the Commission. Developing the Commission s strategic and business plans, obtaining Board approval and leading strategy execution in order to achieve the Commission s strategic goals. Formulating organisational policies and recommend them to the Board for approval, read part of the advert.