Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS coach Lloyd Mutasa is walking with a spring in his step these days.The Glamour Boys travel to Gweru for a league match against Chapungu at Ascot tomorrow on the back of an exciting run of four wins on the trot. Mutasa led his men to victory over Harare City, ZPC Kariba, Tsholotsho and early pacesetters Ngezi Platinum Stars. I think it s another tough game. We know what we are up against. The fact that this side has not lost a match in their last seven games says a lot about their pedigree, said Mutasa. But I m happy with the amount of energy our guys are putting in training. It s the same commitment that we have seen on the match days of late. Remember we are a team still trying to find their footing after that slow start. What we need is to try and keep our feet on the ground because many teams are also doing well. Look at the likes of How Mine, Chapungu themselves, Black Rhinos, Ngezi Platinum and FC Platinum, who are still unbeaten, the competition this season is tough. DeMbare striker Quality Kangadze will not make the trip because of a swollen ankle.Kangadze joined Musa Madhiri and Gift Saunyama in the casualty room.But Masimba Mambare and King Nasama have resumed full training, although they were unlikely to be included in the travelling squad.The trip to Gweru will be laden with many emotions.Tragedy struck last year when nine of their supporters perished in a road accident on the way to Gweru to cheer their team against Chapungu.The Glamour Boys will make a stopover at the site of the accident in remembrance of their fallen supporters.Last week, the club held a memorial match against newboys Yadah to help raise funds for the victims, some of whom are still carrying the injuries and struggling with huge medical bills.The event though was a flop as supporters did not respond as was expected. It s been a year now and we are going back to Gweru in the same month, around about the same time when that accident occurred. So we are going to visit that area with the deceased and the injured in mind. Last week, we remembered them in a friendly match against Yadah, said Mutasa.Chapungu coach Tendai Chikuni said his side is currently trying to rediscover their footing after making a false start.Chikuni is enjoying working with former Young Warriors coach Rodwell Dhlakama, who recently joined the Air Force of Zimbabwe side as technical director.Chapungu have a balanced squad built on veterans Phillip Marufu, Blessed Mbavarira, Collin Kwaramba, Tineyi Chitora, Allan Tavarwisa and youngsters Ian Nyoni and Ricky Bota.Meanwhile, Ngezi Platinum will be looking to bounce back from the midweek disappointment when they face lowly Bantu Rovers. This is part of football. We had gone on a five-match winning streak, which I thought we handled very well and when we drew that match (against Chapungu), I thought we would come back into the game considering the way we dominated. We are still on top, we are not feeling any heat at all. It s part of football, we just have to be strong and try to pick up points in our next match. We have to go back home, plan and collect points as well. We are still in it. We will work hard and fight and see what happens going forward, said coach Tonderai Ndiraya.FixturesTodayZPC Kariba v FC Platinum (Nyamhunga), Tsholotsho v Chicken Inn (Dulivhadzimo)TomorrowHarare City v Triangle United (NSS), Ngezi Platinum v Bantu Rovers (Baobab), Chapungu v Dynamos (Ascot), Highlanders v Hwange (Barbourfields), Bulawayo City v Yadah (Luveve), Shabanie Mine v Black Rhinos (Maglas), *CAPS United v How Mine (Postponed)