Business Reporter GOVERNMENT has posted a number of key milestones in its quest to create a more business friendly environment amid indications the computerised company search system is now functional. The Office of the President and Cabinet said Government s mission to reform and make Doing Business easier had progressed well, with a supporting legislative framework at an advanced stage.Implementation of the online company name search application system began in April 2016 at the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair. An average 60 applicants visit the site daily. This innovation has reduced the turnaround time for name search applications from 7 days to 1 day, the OPC said this week.The Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing, through a general letter published in the Government Gazette in March last year, waived the need for prior advertising by businesses in a number of designated areas. This has served to reduce the number of days to obtain a shop licence from 56 days to 5 days. Efforts to further reduce the number of days to obtain a shop licence through local authorities are under active consideration, the OPC said.The Shop Licensing Act has also been amended in order to lessen the time taken to open a business, and the Bill to effect the changes is now in Parliament going through due processes.The computerisation of the National Social Security Authority processes has reduced the manpower turnaround time from 14 days to 1. A new Companies Bill is currently going through Peer Review and is expected to be enacted into law in the second half of 2017. The Bill has taken longer than anticipated to ensure that the final product is coherent with other legislations and is easy to interpret.OPC also said the legislation had taken longer than expected due to the importance of this law in fostering a more transparent, competitive and business friendly environment in Zimbabwe.With regards to efforts to reduce the time taken to register property in Government, tremendous progress has been made by Ministry of Justice and Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Department of Deeds, Companies and Intellectual Property. This has resulted in reduction of the Cost and Ease of Doing Business from an initial 36 days to 14 days by May 13, 2017, OPC said.The Reviewed Deeds Registries Act has resulted in the establishment of an electronic registry, which will reduce the time and cost for registering property. The Deeds Registries Amendment Bill is awaiting ascension into law after both the National Assembly and the Senate approved legislation last month.