Foreign students and children from DomboshavaChiedza Matenga Lifestyle Correspondent Give generously to them and do so without a grudging heart; then because of this the Lord your God will bless you in all your work and in everything you put your hand to (Deuteronomy 15:10). The Bible clearly states how giving results in blessings as God loves a cheerful giver. This scripture has manifested itself in a Zimbabwean woman based in Wales, UK, Martha Musonza-Holman who is the founder of Love Zimbabwe Charity and Love Zimbabwe Fair Trade Company that has been assisting Domboshava community for the past 15 years. She makes it a point to return to Zimbabwe annually to grace the community with her presence. Martha who is married to David Holman, visits the country together with her husband.In an interview during their annual event recently, which was also graced by Chief Chinhamora, Martha said she was overwhelmed by the grateful people of the community who continually show a smile. We normally visit with students from universities and this time around we came with five of them and they seem to be enjoying themselves. Our mission is to help the disabled and the needy in this community. We are also in the process of building the centre for them, she said.Chief Chinamora expressed his joy and gratitude to Martha. All these faces always look forward to seeing Sister Martha annually and I have become fond of her, she is truly what they call one in a million, he said.The community runs garden projects where they are encouraged to compete for the best produce which they also use for their sustenance. We are going to be handing out gifts to those who had the best vegetables gardens, she said.The third and second prize winners received chickens while the first prize winner walked away with a goat. The overjoyed Joyce Zvimbudzana was extremely happy with her goat prize. I am so happy to win the first prize because when the students came to compare my garden with the rest, they just went quiet and I didn t know what that meant only to realise today that they were dumbfounded. I grow cabbages and butter-beans. Now I believe that truly names have meanings, imagine what my name means and now look at what I ve just won. My life will never be the same, this is just the beginning, said a joyful Joyce.Martha who was born and bred in Chinhoyi said there was no greater feeling on earth than to give and see the joy in others.Love Zimbabwe has adopted Diana Mangwenya Samkange as their brand ambassador who together with her band put up a sterling performance during the occasion.