Gamu KurebwaTafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter For most musicians inspiration is key to success, while talent is a gift from God. One such artiste who draws much from her personal life is Gamu Kurebwa, a rookie in gospel. In an interview, Kurebwa said gospel music is here to stay. Basically, I want to restore hope and bring revival to nations, she enthused. I come from a shaky background being raised by a single mother after my dad when I was young. I almost died due to illness but I saw the power of God working in me so I decided to honour HIM through music. The 25-year-old sings about things that she sees and experiences that people go through in their day to day lives. She enjoys the music of Juanita Bynum, an American gospel artiste. I m excited about her life story and how she got to where she is now, Gamu said. She also gets encouraged by her mother who is a pastor with Full Gospel South Africa.As a member of the Assemblies of God, her music straddles between jazz, R n B, soul and a bit of South African gospel flavor.Her debut eight-track album titled Revival is a mixed bag of the sounds she loves the most and that s worship. Songs that bring her best include Calvary, Sei Usingade , Angels Bow featuring Tawanda Midzi, The Way and Take all The Glory among others.The album was recorded at Limitless Studios. She has so far worked with Elliot Makuyana and Pastor Josh Keys of the Aripano fame which won Song of the Year at the Permican Awards.She has also performed at a number of shows in Harare and Bindura. Her biggest challenge was dealing with negative energy from people who didn t believe that music is rewarding. I have a degree in social work and my family expects a lot from that and not music because they don t believe music can be as rewarding as any other profession, she explained.Her second challenge is lack of support from established artistes who refuse to share the stage. She believes her music sets her apart from the rest because she has a personal relationship with God and she does as the spirit leads. This is what you find in my music because I m more on the worship side, she said.