Valerie ChingonzoArts Reporter All is set for the inaugural Miss Mt PleC , a beauty contest for the Mt Pleasant constituency that will be held at 7Arts Theatre in Avondale tomorrow night as part of efforts empower the girl child to make a difference in the community. The pageant is being sponsored by legislator for Mt Pleasant Cde Jaison Passade under Mount Talent Trust with the contestants drawn from the Mount Pleasant community including students from universities in the area.Thirty contestants will contest tomorrow s event. Event organiser Valerie Chingonzo said there was a lot of talent in the community. There is so much talent in the Constituency but little exposure and lack of recreational facilities. The Mount Talent Trust seeks to nurture capabilities by giving residents in the community a platform to showcase their various skills and talents, she said.Chingonzo added that the winners will be expected to assist the MP in various social responsibility programmes in the community. The Queen and the winners will assist the Member of Parliament in coming up with ways and strategies on how best to solve the problems currently facing the Constituency. The Queen will be the ambassador and face of the Constituency and will come up with ways to strategise, organise residents for community building projects and conduct a needs assessment, added Chigonzo. Entertainment at tomorrow s event will be provided by Killer T, Trevor Dongo and man of the moment Soul Jah Love.The contestants have already been involved in clean up campaigns and donations to vulnerable people in the constituency. Cde Passade said he was excited to give back to the community by uplifting the girl child. This is part of the social responsibility programmes we have been carrying out in the community and through this pageant we hope to impart life skills among the girl child and so far they have been carrying various humanitarian work in the constituency, he said. The winner will walk away with a car and other cash prices while the princess and Miss Personality will receive cash prizes.