Joice MujuruGeorge Maponga Masvingo Bureau Chief Chiwara of Gutu has distanced himself from opposition National People s Party (NPP) led by former Vice President Dr Joice Mujuru, saying he will remain a member of Zanu-PF until death . Mr Reuben Mupasi (90), who is an ex-detainee and former freedom fighter, said he joined nationalist politics in the early 1940s. The statement by Chief Chiwara followed reports that circulated widely in the local media in Masvingo insinuating that he had endorsed Dr Mujuru and her NPP party.Chief Chiwara was alleged to have attended Dr Mujuru s rally at Maungwa Business Centre in Gutu South last month, where he was reported to have openly pledged allegiance to the NPP leader.Investigations by The Herald revealed that Chief Chiwara joined other chiefs in the district, namely Chief Makore, Chief Mawere and Chief Nerupiri in snubbing Dr Mujuru s rally and her planned meeting with traditional leaders.Mr William Majada, who is a member of the Chiwara clan, attended Dr Mujuru s rally and was introduced by the politician as Chief Chiwara. Mr Majada openly chanted slogans in support of the NPP, claiming he did not support Zanu-PF.He has since been summoned to appear before Chief Chiwara s court for impersonation. Chief Chiwara said: I am old and in the twilight of my life after the Lord blessed me with so many years. I am 90-years-old now; why would I ditch the party (Zanu-PF) when I started fighting the racist Rhodesian colonial system as early as the 1950s? How can I be said to be a follower of the Queen Bee? Never, ever in my lifetime! I am very old and I would rather live my last days in peace. I am a Zanu-PF member to the bone and will remain so. My home right now is in the resettlement areas where we drove away whites under the land reform programme started by Zanu-PF, so how on earth can I ditch this party. Chief Chiwara threatened legal action against publications that spread reports that he attended the NPP rally. I have instructed my lawyers to take legal action against all the publications that said I endorsed Mujuru and I have also summoned Majada to appear before my court for impersonation, he said. I feel what he did is part of those family disputes over the Chiwara chieftainship because he was against my ascension to become Chief Chiwara. If he fails to appear before my court, I will take the matter up with the magistrates court. Chief Chiwara reiterated that Zanu-PF was the only political party that had interests of Zimbabweans at heart, adding that President Mugabe was anointed by God.NPP Masvingo provincial chairman Mr Oliver Chirume conceded that the person who was introduced at Dr Mujuru s rally was not the real Chief Chiwara. We never said the person in question (Mr Majada) was Chief Chiwara, we clearly indicated that the person was a chief s representative, we would not know whether the person impersonated or not because he said to us he had been sent by the chief to represent him, said Mr Chirume.