Minister HlongwaneCollen Murahwa Sports Reporter Government has embarked on a drive to take sports traditionally regarded as elite to the communities, Sport and Recreation Minister Makhosini Hlongwane has said. Speaking during the commissioning of a basketball court at Domboramwari Secondary School in Epworth yesterday, Hlongwane said sporting facilities within schools are there to be utilised by the community. For the community, this is a milestone development, basketball is one of the sports that has been traditionally regarded as elite, he said. In Zimbabwe, basketball is one of the fastest growing sports, but situating only in the urban areas, now this represents taking sport to the people. The community of Epworth does benefit also because schools relate very well with their communities and sporting facilities within schools are at the disposal of the community around those schools, so it means that clubs around Domboramwari Secondary School will benefit also from this facility, this is a milestone development. Hlongwane said starting this Sunday, they will be rolling out ward youth games countrywide as a prologue to the National Youth Games and basketball is going to be part of the gallery. Starting this Sunday, we are rolling out the ward youth games, which are part of the National Youth Games as the commencement of the National Youth Games programme and in those ward youth games that are happening all over the country, basketball is part of it. We know that there are wards which do not have the facilities, that s ok, but it s an important start. Basketball Union of Zimbabwe president Addison Chiware expressed gratitude to the organisations and the community who came together to fund the initiative as it would go a long way in developing the sport. We are happy with the local political leadership and the various organisations and parents who came together and put up this fantastic facility, he said.Epworth House of Assembly Member Zalerah Makoni said the project is important because it puts sport into perspective.