Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis Last week we were talking about the yoke of discouragement. We learnt and discovered that its one of the deadliest weapons the devil uses to destroy lives, communities, ministries, gifts, families and even nations. Once the yoke of discouragement fastens on your neck, it s hard to progress; it s hard to move on.But, hallelujah we thank God for the anointing of the Lord, which breaks all yokes.Like I promised last week I will tell you of a mountain situation that stood our way with my wife during our years of ministry and the Lord gave us victory. Discouragement didn t get a chance; yes you too can trample upon discouragement and win in life. And it shall come to pass in that day, that his burden shall be taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing Isaiah 10:27. Only one thing can withstand discouragement, and it s the anointing of the Holy Spirit.Only the Word of God, roused by the anointing of the Lord can subdue and silence the voice of discouragement.That voice can break your marriage, sow mistrusts at the workplace and tear the work of your hands down.That voice can tell you, Nobody likes you , nobody cares , nobody is there for you , everyone just wants to use you! No, no, no friend that s the voice of discouragement.Not everybody hates you, no.Over 6 billion people in the world surely somebody cares about you.After all we have a friend that sticks closer than a brother, Jesus Christ our Lord. O hallelujah!You may have come across wrong, hurtful, mean, abusive people either in your relationships, family, at school, home, or even at church but that doesn t mean the whole world is like that, no.Discouragement clouds judgment and generalizes things.It tells you everyone is a liar, all men are cheaters, all women are promiscuous no brother. You just have a visitor at your door step Mr Discouragement.He plays with your mind, he plays with your past; he plays with things that have gone wrong in your life.When he speaks tell him shut up there are many good things waiting for me in my life.Hahaha, tell him Jeremiah 29:11, for I know the plans that I have for you, plans to prosper you and give you an expected end says the Lord.O I like it, I like it. Cheer up, whoever you are reading this article cheer up!When the enemy points out all things that went wrong in your life, don t sulk no.He will terrorise you.Begin to count your blessings one by one.Count all the good things since you were a child, got sick and the Lord healed you, how the Lord gave you a good grandmother who loved you much, how the Lord gave you a sharp mathematical mind, how the Lord kept you safe in all your travelling, count them one by one.Discouragement is powered by bad news and it is weakened by good news.I remember in the 90s when we were building our Cathedral, there was joy.We were almost done when one day at office I received a phone call bad news.The roof of our church had collapsed.Not a part of the roof but the whole roof crushed down.Before I could do anything ZBC reporters got into the office and said Pastor Manjoro we hear the roof of your church has just gone down what do you have to say? The Lord put a word on my lips, yes the roof has gone down but God is still up there.You see your finances may be down. But as long as God is still up there, you will rise up again. Finally I drove to the church, only to see people gathered and the whole roof nowhere to be seen.It was a hard moment. It was easy to be discouraged but I told myself, no.I refuse to be discouraged. God is still up there.Thank God nobody died at the site when the roof fell because workers were there still constructing the building.In other words I began to count my blessings in that negative situation.O hallelujah. I announced we will not change our target for official opening of the Cathedral.We will build again. And build again we did.Today the roof is more beautiful than the first one that fell down.What if I had listened to discouragement and gave up?What story would I be telling you today?I challenge you, refuse to be discouraged, refuse to give up, and refuse to say its over.The next generation is waiting to hear your story.It s possible to say no to discouragement, I did.You also can, through Christ who strengthens you!For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27