By Makomborero Marumisa &#8211; OyOsTech News Talk to anyone who s ever had a start-up company. They have one dream for their company to grow to develop a wildfire-like personality of spreading as far and as wide as it can. To speak out and be heard, making waves on every platform their brand can stand on. And trust me there is no louder voice on the planet than the World Wide Web.Most brands seek this kind of ground to stand on, one that is particularly provided by online stores.As the market constantly etches into the virtual realm of buying and selling merchandise, producers have a span of mutual benefits between them and their customers to reap from.Online stores market the makers of a particular brand, be it a song, a best-selling novel, or a remodelled vehicle brand.Consumers are simultaneously given a platform to reach out and communicate to the makers of that product. Whether I like it or I love it I could let you know about your brand.If a bug needs to be fixed or certain styling needs to be updated producers can have all these things about them sent directly or have the consumers simply leave a comment on the site. Getting people to talk about your brand is a great way to market it. Mrs Precious Mumbure is one of the people who works at the new popular online store, OyOsMusic and she had this to say in relation to the matter: Having an online store is very effective when you are trying to capture a wider global audience. Let us take for instance an artist like Cindy Munyavi who is well known in Southern Africa. She can actually sell her music online by having an Online Music Store of her own or she can submit her music to online stores like OyOsMusic which is a Zimbabwean innovation targeting local artists who want to sell their homegrown music online globally. Cindy is now able to sell all her music online globally because she signed up with OyOsMusic and the returns are simply amazing! These stores ensure that the product of an artist or particular brand remains incorruptible. If a local artist, suppose one of musical talents, took his/her track to an online store, let s say OyOsMusic, his/ her listeners would be guaranteed the quality pirates cannot provide.The same crisp and neat audio quality he/she tailored whilst in the studio is the same quality the online store delivers.Pirate sites rob artists of this by either mimicking their tracks or finding some other way to dodge copyright lawsuits being stuffed in their pockets. It s the one quality that all good brands provide and that is trust.The trust that every time you click download or buy to check out your shopping basket, you get the same quality all the time.Also, online stores provide a neat profit on the side for those marketing their brand. You could try selling things physically and it might catch on, but nothing beats the 24/7, high-speed reliability of the internet.Someone driving on the highway on their way home or somebody waking up to a sunrise in their bedroom can download your music or click buy on your merchandise anytime they choose. Go ahead and tell me that this isn t the most efficient way to sell your brand.So, let s give the benefit of doubt that you are an ambitious young entrepreneur or maybe you are already your own business mogul of sorts. I could sell you a nice attractive-smelling bouquet of all the reasons you have to start using online stores, but nothing beats going out and trying it out for yourself.ZIMHOST Webdesigners is providing online stores from only $50 and these come integrated with ecocah, teleash, zimswitch, paynow, mastercard, visa card and paypal. Join the ecommerce world.ZIMHOST Webdesigners, 1st Floor, Angwa Hse, Cnr Angwa/ G. Silundika, 0771 111 222, 04 796528, [email&#160;protected], www.zimhosts.com