Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis Man is a creature of dominion, not to rule over each other, but to have authority over all creation. Adam had it, but lost it. In this year of restoration may God restore dominion into your life since the second Adam our Lord Jesus Christ, conquered the enemy on the cross and took back the keys.I will share with you today, how you can rule in your world, subdue and be fruitful despite all the difficulties and challenges around you due to the blessing of the Lord. So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it and have dominion over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth , Genesis 1:27-28.What many people do not understand is that what the world is like is not what it was like in the beginning; what their lives are like is not what it was originally meant from the beginning.Any thing in life whose use and original plan is not known is bound to be abused, manipulated or taken advantage of.The same with your life; when we do not know how it was meant to be like, the devil always takes advantage. My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge, Hosea 4:6. Sickness, failure, bad luck, bewitchment and all manner of afflictions wielded at your life and family do not come from God.In our key text above, we learn how God created man and gave him dominion in the garden. Moreover man was given a blessing by the Lord. He was not given a curse, neither made inferior for in his own image, in the image of God created he . . . male and female, Genesis 1:27.Everything contrary to this in your life is a foreigner and a parasite. It s not allowed. Those terrible, frightening and haunting dreams that torment you every night were never a part of your life or God s plan it s foreign and therefore not allowed in your life.That enchantment against your life that causes you to work hard, earn money, make a budget, but nothing comes out as though you never worked is not a part of God s plan for your life.You were meant to be blessed, fruitful, productive and touching things that flourish. You rule through the blessing of God.Before charms came, before they went to the witchdoctors to curse your family and your children for example declaring, So and so s children will never amount to anything in life, they will produce nothing !God blessed you.Your children will amount to something and they will make it in life in Jesus name. Yours are blessings not curses.You could be asking by now and saying to yourself Pastor if you say I am a creature of dominion why then am I struggling with poverty, lack and failure in my life; why my family and marriage in chaos right now? It brings in my next point. When man was created and given dominion, there is one guy who was there who didn t like it at all and hoped he would usurp the authority and rule instead. That guy is Satan, the devil and old serpent who is against man and all good, peace, unity, love and progress in life. He is against your promotion at work, against your marital happiness, against your children amounting up to something in life, against all the works of your hands and all your dreams the devil.Friend we have an enemy and wrestle not against flesh and blood. We have a real enemy. People are not our enemies. Relatives, bosses, neighbours, workmates and church members are not our enemies. All the attacks in our lives are wielded from the camp of the devil.Have you been under attack in your life and family wondering what s going on and how you would handle it? I have a good word for you; Cheer up for God s blessing is knocking at your doorstep right now. The devil will have to march out in Jesus name. You were meant to rule, to be above, to take authority and to be blessed in all things.You are above what they say you are. You are beyond the level of the plots being made to take your husband away from you through charms and black magic.Stand on the Word of God and say to yourself, enough is enough.Let restoration of God s dominion take place in your life in Jesus name. For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27.