Tedious Manyepo Sports Reporter YOUTHS in Epworth are crying foul as it has emerged the much-hyped construction of a world-class Olympic Centre in the peri-urban settlement could suffer a still-birth as informal settlers who invaded the proposed site are yet to be relocated. The project is being funded by the International Olympic Committee through the Senegal-based Olympafrica Foundation and is managed by the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee.It is the brainchild of one of Epworth s most illustrious sons, Musekiwa Kumbula, who, together with former ZOC president Tommy Sithole, mooted the idea of bringing it to this part of the world.The construction of the Centre was supposed to have commenced in April last year after the Epworth Local Board offered the land to ZOC. But there is virtually no progress to write home about as the stalemate between the Epworth Local Board and the informal settlers drags on.If the feuding parties fail to find common ground sooner than later, which is more likely, there is real danger the project will never see the light of the day as the funders could withdraw their support. And the youths in the area, who were pinning their hopes of horning sporting skills at the multi-purpose centre, are becoming impatient as they believe the impasse could spell doom to their ambitions. I am a soccer player and less gifted academically. I hope to make a living through playing football. I have tried to work hard in class but I have discovered that is not for me. When news filtered into our area that a multi-purpose centre was to be built, every youth was excited about the prospect of developing their skills there. But, as it stands all our hopes could go up in smoke as it is now more likely that the complex will never be erected, said one boy.Several other youths in the area echoed the same sentiments. The informal settlers are resisting to vacate the area arguing that the Epworth Local Board should first offer them an alternative place.Last year, the Epworth Local Board secretary Kizito Muhomba hinted it would be very difficult to construct the Olympafrica Centre especially in the face of the resistance from the informal settlers. A development of such nature in Epworth is not an ordinary one and may never happen in any foreseeable future, he said then.No comment could be obtained from ZOC. The Centre needs about $500 000 to be completed. Recently, the Minister of Sport, Recreation and Culture, Makhosini Hlongwane, commissioned a new basketball court at Domboramwari Secondary School in Epworth.