Culture Warriors from Mufakose were the winners of Chibuku Neshamwari traditional dance Harare provincial competitions held at Warren Park Bar on Saturday.Tawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent Culture Warriors from Mufakose were the winners of Chibuku Neshamwari traditional dance Harare provincial competition held at Warren Park Bar on Saturday. The group booked their ticket to the final to be held in Bulawayo on August 5. Chewa Gure from Mufakose came out second while Pasichigare from Glen Norah scooped third prize. The Culture Warriors walked away with $300 while the other groups went away with $200 and $150 re- spectively.All other participating groups got $50. Other groups that participated include Chisioneki, Landilani, Dedza, A2 Chimutali, Chisoni, Beta Holdings, Kondanani, Villa, NOP Zone 1, NOP Akupanyira and Fusion.Thrills , excitement and competition were the order of the day as people from all walks of life were enjoying the event that is hosted by Delta Beverages, Zimbabwe Traditional Dancers Association (ZNTDA)and the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe. Chibuku Neshamwari has been instrumental in preserving the culture and identity of our heritage.Different communities have embraced the competition with this year s contestants increasing in most provinces. Traditional dance was instrumental in most communities as it provided entertainment as well as relaying several messages.In some social events different cultures would be identified through traditional dance. Culture Warriors were ecstatic at winning the competition saying it was just the beginning as they seek to claim the top position at national level. Winning at provincial level is good for us as we have already booked our ticket at the provincial level. We are working to have the glory in this province, claimed the group.ZNTDA director Kennedy Kachuruka said the main aim of the festival is the preservation of intangible cultural heritage and promoting participation of traditional dances for generational inheritance. We are happy that this year s edition started on a high note and we are encouraging those traditional groups that have not been registered with us to come and do so. That is the only way that makes them eligible for the competition, he said.