Petros Kausiyo Deputy Sports Editor TWO years after his suspension, Harare Basketball Association (HBA) president Bernard Jiro is still seeking justice and has taken his case to the Ministry of Sport and Recreation in a bid to get a fair hearing after allegedly receiving a raw deal from the Basketball Union of Zimbabwe (BUZ) and the Sports Commission.Jiro was suspended by the HBA on allegations of maladministration and abuse of the province s funds and has over the last two years been fighting to clear his name.With no finality on the case, a frustrated Jiro, who claims he also sought some recourse via the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee, has appealed to the Ministry of Sport and Recreation.This also comes as a nasty of war of words erupted between Sports Commission acting director-general Joseph Muchechetere and Jiro last week.Jiro did not spare BUZ president Adison Chiware in his attack. It is understood the HBA need closure on the Jiro saga before conducting elections scheduled for July 4.In his letter to Muchechetere, Jiro chronicled the steps he had taken to try and have his case brought to finality. I write to inquire about the above matter that remains unresolved to date in spite of the fact that I appealed to your office regarding the same, as an urgent matter in May 2015. In spite of attached July 2016 SRC verdict and directives by your office to resolve this impasse, Mr Chiware has wantonly ignored numerous e-mail deadlines and directives for over two years. Under his watch, the Harare Basketball Association even brazenly proceeded to convene a belated disciplinary hearing against me in August 2015 after SRC had taken over jurisdiction of the matter.They slapped me with an illegal 5-year ban in open violation of the SRC directive to do nothing pending SRC resolution of the matter . They led no evidence and manned the disciplinary committee in spite of being interested parties; hence invalid since there is a principle of separation of powers which demands a hearing to be conducted by a neutral committee. HBA is now advertising for elections to choose a new executive before my matter is finalised. Elections are scheduled to be held on the 4th of July 2017, wrote Jiro.He said allowing the election to go ahead before his case ends would set a dangerous precedent for the administration of basketball in the province. I put it to you that this will set a bad and dangerous precedent for future HBA presidents if this matter is swept under the carpet. I am also keen to have the illegal five-year ban slapped against me set aside based on attached verdict as a way to correct the record/ history. I also seek a retraction of unfounded charges and media characterisation as an embezzler in the absence of proof, trial or conviction. This can be achieved by issuance of an exonerating joint Press release by the parties. I look forward to your urgent resolution of this urgent matter in light of the impending HBA elections. I am human and I have a right to be heard and get frustrated where I feel my matter is being conveniently sat on in spite of its urgency. If it were your reputation on the line, I am sure you would also fight tooth and nail to clear your name if you were innocent of the charges as I am. Muchechetere, who appeared to have been irked by Jiro s decision to blame the commission, hit back at the appellant. (I) am fully aware that you have had a series of communications with the ministry, some of the communication I am in possession of, Muchechetere wrote. You went further to threaten the ministry with legal action and also called the acting director-general names, some of the things I cannot mention in this communication. You further told the ministry that the SRC and acting director-general are incompetent and hence you would not go back to them. Surprisingly, we see again Mr Jiro knocking at our door. In view of this, I find it strange to accommodate your request under this environment, where more than three authorities are asked to deal with the same thing separately. More so, It has become difficult also for SRC to be involved where its authority is undermined despite it having taken steps to redress the issue amicably involving the parties. Unless and until your position on threats and muddy slinging actions are withdrawn and apologies are done, the SRC is not comfortable to engage you and other parties on this issue. 