Lifestyle Writer Partial to wee dram : How many times have you heard the phrase? Yes, if you are in the know how, then obviously the two shots are your best friend in July.In support of that one writer, the late Proud Scotsman said, Love makes the world go round? Not at all. Whiskey makes it go round twice as fast. Yes, alcohol may be hazardous to our health if consumed excessively, but multitudes love it.No matter your preference is for Jim Beam, Jack Daniels, Fireball, or Wild Turkey, many people have a favourite whiskey, even if they won t admit it. According to a survey, the demand for whiskey is outpacing the available supply over the past seven years.Whiskey used to be the drink of cowboys, construction workers, and other badass types. Recently, however, it has become more and more common to see people from all walks of life enjoying a shot of whiskey after work.Of course, there are always critics who don t enjoy whiskey.They will label it an old man s drink, or tell you that it has such as strong taste that it s hard to imagine anyone liking it. Some mothers might have even told you that if you enjoyed the taste of whiskey, you must be an alcoholic!What if we told you that you can enjoy that double shot of whiskey and not feel one bit guilty about it?In line with celebrating and enjoying whiskey, preparations for the inaugural Whiskey Exchange festival to be held next month at Hellenics Sports Club are at advanced stage as the organizers have confirmed the latest developments.The two-day festival which will be held from July 29 30, in a bid to take suppliers passion for their brands to the people into the real world of whiskey and let individuals get together and share their experiences and opinions on the wise waters of life , will see chief executives, diplomats, celebrities, socialites and musicians in attendance.Dubbed It s a Whiskey Thing, You Wouldn t Understand , the event is being organised by Garden Shed Consulting. In an interview with Garden Shed Consulting managing director James Mparutsa said the event is for suppliers, distributors and agencies to showcase their range of whiskies. We want to engage and educate consumers about whisky and how to consume it. Research has shown us that people are keen to know more about whiskey and other spirits and would attend an event where answers are provided thus the need to have this festival. Our event will be dubbed exchanges because every time you attend an Exchange Event you get a stamp in your passport, he said.He said the event will have a red carpet feel as guests are expected to dress formal on the opening night. Our target audiences are company execs, opinion leaders, trend-setters, club owners, aspiring whiskey drinkers and bar and restaurant staffs. We want to make consumers understand the different terminologies. We are happy that we in talks with some stakeholders and media companies to host the elegance affair so people should dress up, he said.Mparutsa said whiskey takers should also identifying genuine from counterfeit products. We raising brand awareness and understanding. The various suppliers will identify brands in their stable to exhibit at the event. Each supplier selects the brands they would want to showcase at the event and we have allocated exhibiting stands to the suppliers as per number of brands they have selected.The focus is on whiskey although some companies would like to bring high end brands like Hennessy among others, he said.He said some of the exhibitors brands participating are Johnnie Walker, Bells, J&amp;B, Vat 69, Chivas Regal, Jameson, Famous Grouse, Glenfiddich, Monkey Shoulder, Glen Grant, Jack Daniels, Woodridge, Glenbraynth and Glen Morangie among others. We also have other participating lines which are Remy Martin, Hennesy, Hendricks Gin, Tanquerray Gin, KWV Brandy and Viceroy. There is also a possibility that a mixers company will be involved. Some of the suppliers will auction off their rarest bottles of whiskey. Some suppliers are flying in their international Brand Gurus to talk about their whiskey at the event, he said.