Tinashe Makichi Business Reporter NASH Paints will set up a paint manufacturing plant in Zambia as it seeks to register its footprint into the region. Nash Paints is a manufacturer of automotive and decorative paints to a variety of customers across Zimbabwe through its many branches which are dotted across the country.Chairman Tinashe Mutarisi yesterday said the company s vision is to grow through synergies aimed at strengthening the broader local economy. As you are aware there has been massive construction happening in Zambia and we saw that as an opportunity to tap into that market. Our main thrust is to focus on innovation within the paint industry as well as to take our brand beyond the confines of this country. To achieve this we have employed a chief executive, Dr Tagarira Mutenga, said Mr Mutarisi.He said the company recently constructed a state of the art plant worth $3 million which is currently producing 50 000 litres of paint a day although its installed capacity is at 70 000 litres. Support from our customers has been amazing and we hope to keep introducing new products as well as invest more product development. We believe this paint manufacturing plant forms part of Government s economic blueprint, the Zimbabwe Agenda for Socio-Economic Transformation, said Mr Mutarisi.He said the company now controls 70 percent of the market in automotive paints and around 30 percent on decorative paints. The paint manufacturer is also looking at expanding its branch network as it works towards consolidating its market share on a countrywide scale.Since inception the company has grown its branch network to 20 across the country. Our strength is in working with communities and designing tailor made services that suit their demands in painting solutions. We opened branches across the country and recently we opened in Chegutu and Bindura despite the market facing liquidity challenges, said Mr Mutarisi.In order to increase convenience to customers, Nash Paints supplies panel beating accessories, tinting services and abrasives which make it a one stop shop for paint equipment.