CHECKMATE . . . Chapungu right-back Collin Kwaramba (left) blocks Ngezi Platinum winger Terrence Dzukamanja during yesterday s match at Baobab. Picture by Kudakwashe HundaEddie Chikamhi in Ngezi Ngezi Platinum Stars &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;..0Chapungu &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;. 0 Ngezi Platinum coach Tonderayi Ndiraya was frustrated by his team s poor finishing after the log leaders five match winning run was halted by resurgent Chapungu at Baobab yesterday.The platinum miners missed a glut of scoring opportunities in the first half and had to survive a late onslaught from the Air Force of Zimbabwe side towards the end of the match.Ngezi had won the last five matches against Shabanie Mine, Harare City, ZPC Kariba, Tsholotsho and Bulawayo City but their finishing yesterday left a lot to be desired. It wasn t impressive by our standards although I thought we did enough to win the game in the first half. We created a lot of chances but our finishing let us down. Almost every player who plays upfront got his chance. We did just not manage to put the ball to the back of the nets, said Ndiraya. Look we had gone for five matches on a winning streak and dropping two points at home is quite disappointing. But I am encouraged by what the boys did. They kept on fighting and towards the end of the match I thought the counter attack which was played by these guys almost hurt us but we gave it our all. It s just that we could not score goals. Ngezi Platinum Stars made a blistering start yesterday and dominated their opponents in every department in the first half despite missing key players Liberty Chakoroma through suspension and injured Walter Mukanga.Terrence Dzvukamanja twice came close and Talbert Shumba had to stretch beyond limit to keep the attacking midfielder s header out to safety.But Ndiraya s game plan suffered a dent when he was forced to pull out his star player Donald Teguru and defender Edgar Tapera inside the first 30 minutes due to injuries probably caused by the slippery pitch.Yet they maintained their spot at the top of the table with 26 points.Substitute Clive Augusto also miscued his shot wide from close range in the first half as Chapungu defended with all their hearts.Chapungu continued with their fine run as they kept another clean sheet in six matches. The Gweru airmen put up a hearty performance and had the hosts on the backfoot at the restart with Tinei Chitora, Allen Tavarwisa and substitute Brighton Mugoni piling on the pressure.Chapungu coach Tendai Chikuni, who now has former Young Warriors coach Rodwell Dhlakama as technical director, was delighted they have managed to arrest a bad start after avoiding defeat for the sixth game in a row.Their performance yesterday probably explained why they have not conceded a goal in those last six outings.They have beefed up their technical team by roping in Dhlakama. We watched Ngezi play ZPC Kariba and we had a plan for them. We knew very well that they were going to play a 4-3-4 formation and that in terms of technical aspect they are better than us. So we planned for them. But in the first 10-15 minutes it was difficult for us to adjust to the condition of the pitch but later on I told the guys there is nothing to worry about because we are playing on the same pitch. So we really needed to be at our best, said Chikuni.Teams: Ngezi Platinum: T. Mawaya, K. Murera, Q. Amini, P. Jaure, E. Tapera (T. Mchisa, 11th min), X. Moyo, D. Mukandi, G. Murwira, T. Mabvura, T. Dzvukamanja, D. Teguru (C. Augusto, 33rd min).Chapungu: T. Shumba, C. Kwaramba, R. Bota, B. Zabula, B. Mbavarira, L. Genti, I. Nyoni (M. Mavuto, 61st min), M. Muchingami, A. Tavarwisa (N. Papias, 77th min), T. Chitora, P. Marufu (B. Mugoni, 67th minute).