Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter&#8212; WARRIORS coach Norman Mapeza says Zimbabwe can soar to greatness if the country unites behind one national cause, and wants the nation to rally behind them when they begin their journey in the 2019 AFCON qualifiers against Liberia at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. Mapeza, who has returned for another stint with the national team after half-a-dozen years, feels he has to deliver to repay the faith that has been shown in him by the current ZIFA leadership and Zimbabweans from all walks of life.The former Zimbabwe captain is employed full-time at FC Platinum, but has agreed to divide his time for the Warriors cause following the departure of Callisto Pasuwa earlier this year.Mapeza yesterday said the nation should put aside the off-field drama that characterised the final week of the preparations following a tug-of-war between ZIFA and Mamelodi Sundowns over the release of star player Khama Billiat.Instead, focus should be placed on the important task ahead which he believes is key in setting the tone for the rest of the qualifying matches in Group G that also has Congo-Brazzaville and favourites Democratic Republic of Congo. Let s not get divided by what has been happening. This is football, we must be united, said Mapeza. You know it s not politics; it s football. Let everybody come and support the team. We are doing this for the country and I wish everybody could come and give the boys maximum support. We have only one objective, that is to get a positive result. There is no two ways about it. We have to win this game at all costs. The boys have been working very hard and those who will represent the country on Sunday will need to put maximum effort and do their best for the country. It s not only important for me, but for everybody involved in football in Zimbabwe. But for me as interim coach I think it will be massive achievement if we get a positive result. Mapeza feels the team have done their best to prepare for this game since they started the final phase of the preparations earlier this week.The Warriors had hoped to have two weeks in camp, but the camp had to adjourn after a few days of training last week because of domestic league games.The technical team have been working with 24 players and Mapeza was happy with the form and commitment.He believes he still wants to have a closer look at some of the players and will delay naming his final 18 until tomorrow morning.Mapeza also revealed he would have wanted Billiat in his team, but it was not possible because of injury.But the team is expected to be built around the core of skipper Knowledge Musona, Marvelous Nakamba, Eric Chipeta, Tendai Ndoro, Partson Jaure, Kuda Mahachi, Danny Phiri and Onismor Bhasera.It will be difficult for Mapeza to overlook local players such as Devon Chafa, Sydney Linyama, Teenage Hadebe, Jameson Mukombwe and Ronald Chitiyo who have made a strong case during the preparations.A decision will also be made on the goalkeeping department where Ariel Sibanda, George Chigova and Petros Mhari have been vying for places.Mapeza has pleaded for maximum support and ZIFA will be hoping for a big response after slashing the gate charges to $3 for the cheapest ticket. There is so much pressure. You can tell even by looking on my face, the pressure is too much. It s for the country, there is nothing I can do about it but we have to deliver on Sunday. I just hope that everybody puts maximum efforts on Sunday and everyone goes home happy, said Mapeza.The Zimbabwe National Soccer Supporters Association also welcomed the decision by ZIFA to reduce gate-charges from the usual $5 for international matches to $3.ZNSSA organising-secretary Chris Romario Musekiwa urged Zimbabweans to come and fill the stadium. It s once again the time for the soccer crazy nation to come together and solidly rally behind our beloved Warriors. As supporters let us come in our big numbers and give our boys unwavering support creating a carnival atmosphere which will confuse the visitors. The Warriors need every breath and inch of our support to win, for there smotivational power in every cheer. To our battle-hardened Warriors, it s not the strength of individual brilliance, but strength of team work that will bring the desired results, said Musekiwa.Liberia arrived on Thursday with a depleted squad. Their coach James Debbah said five of the 14 players invited for the match have been ruled out due to different reasons.Debbah told journalists Billiat s teammate at Sundowns Anthony Laffor will miss the match due to injury while Norway-based Alex Nimely and Joel Johnson, who plays in the United States, have documentation issues.Highly-rated Wydad Casablanca striker William Jebor will not feature in the game after he lost his mother during the week.Alfred Janyan was also unable to join the squad, but Debbah is hopeful that the majority of the local players called in as replacements will make the grade.The Lone Star warmed up for the match with a 1-0 win over neighbours Sierra Leone on Monday.Debbah declared his boys were not tourists in Harare as they have come determined to upset the Warriors. This is a very important game and we are prepared for it and our expectation is to come here to win and nothing else. We have a very good young team since we are on a rebuilding exercise, said Debbah.