Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter TEAM Zimbabwe to take part in the Confederation of African Athletics Southern Region Senior Championships starting today at the National Sports Stadium is confident of rising above the challenge. Zimbabwe are hosting the two-day event, which ends tomorrow, with several countries from the region taking part. Some of the countries will be using the meet as part of their preparations for the IAAF World Championships in August.One of the coaches for Team Zimbabwe, Briad Nhubu, challenged their athletes to rise above the challenge when they face athletes from South Africa and Botswana who have been doing well on the global scene. We have been looking at the tactical approach to specific events. For those who are working on track, it s been about speed and endurance. We have also been working on starts especially on sprinters. For middle and long distances we have been working on pacing and that tactical approach where and when to do something. We have been addressing them trying to prepare them mentally. Yes, we know we are going to be battling out with big countries like South Africa and Botswana, who have been doing very well at the world championships. But every competition is new to everyone. So everyone should be prepared to make it in any event they are taking part in without looking at names they are competing with, Nhubu said.Zimbabwe have also incorporated some juniors and youth in their 50-member team as they prepare for the African Junior Championships in Algeria from June 29 to July 2 in Algeria and World Under-18 Championships in Kenya next month.Nhubu, who is also the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe director of youth, said this is an opportunity to measure their preparedness. We have got Vimbai Maisvoreva who has already qualified for the World Youth Championships. We think she can also reconfirm her qualification. Arage Mutambo is also one of the athletes who will be competing, she qualified during Cossasa, she can also reconfirm. We also have juniors like Dickson Kapandura, Tinotenda Matiyenga, and Chengetayi Mapaya, in fact we have quite a number of juniors shortlisted for Algeria. We will be competing with some of these countries at the World Youth Championships and African Junior. It could be a good test for us, said Nhubu.The regional meet is also crucial for the seniors as the country seeks qualification in the track and field events for the global meet in August, in London.NAAZ director of coaching, talent identification and development, Lisimati Phakamile, is hopeful the likes of sprinter Ngoni Makusha of Successful Strides Club and 800m runner Nyasha Mutsetse can make the cut.Some of the countries that were in by yesterday include, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa and Zambia.