Sipiti Band members on stagePeter Tanyanyiwa Arts Correspondent Fast-rising all-female band, Sipiti has taken the musical scene by storm. Recently they dazzled revellers at Ora Restaurant located at Helensvale Shopping Centre with a top-notch live band performance and vocals delivery that left many music lovers crying for more.Some of the songs they performed last include Hearts are Broken, Gore, Shongashonga, Kumuchiva, Ndakada Iwe, Ndaneta, and Ndaramba Kurambwa. After performing they asked the audience to request any song from any artiste and won hearts of many when they performed the rendition of Bob Marley s One Love .Music analysts at the show who refused to be named concurred that if these young ladies continue on the path they are on they are destined to greatness. They will surely raise the Zimbabwean flag high and help raise the local live band performances bar high.In an interview Sipiti band manager Evance Masau said he was excited with how the band was performing and is grateful for the support given to them. In a year and some months this band has become one of the biggest bands to come from Harare and make a mark in the music circles, this is something to celebrate, he said. These ladies are just exceptional and I am hoping they will get all the support they deserve, one thing I can tell Zimbabweans is all those successful bands out there did not achieve all that on their own, they had the people s support. So when you see us and see that there is talent please do not just leave us, we need your support in every way to put Zimbabwean music on a whole new level. The name Sipiti means the musical fountain, a fountain is a source of water that never runs dry no matter what season it is, it provides hope, life, love and quenches too, said Sipiti band manager. Sipiti is a five-piece all female band founded in May 2016 and all members are talented instrumentalists and vocalists.The band members also run separate business entities from sewing, poetry, beauty therapy to acting. Sipiti Band members are: vocalist and keyboard player, Nonhlanhla Muhoni, vocalist and percussionist, Pamela Dzvinamurungu, vocalist and drummer, Lorraine Gambiza, bass guitarist and vocalist, Miriam Muchemwa and keyboardist and percussionist, Fungai Chinogaramombe.The band members are still furthering their musical carriers at the Music Crossroads Academy. They made history by becoming the Music Crossroads first all-female band in May 2016 and built a band which composed Afro fissions from jazz to pop. They have performed at platforms like Miombo Magic 2016-2017, Miss Tourism dinner gala, Hifa 2017 with the music Crossroad s Divas, cooperate events and now are a house band at Ora Restaurant.