Chinese Foreign Affairs Minister Wang YiLovemore Chikova in ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia Development experts on Wednesday lauded China for its role in helping Africa fight poverty, but warned countries on the continent to select only aspects from the Asian economic giant which apply to their local situations. The experts were speaking at a two-day China-Africa High Level Dialogue and Think Tank Forum which was officially opened by Chinese Foreign Affairs Minister Wang Yi here under the theme Fighting against poverty for common prosperity .Drawing experiences from Chinese President Xi Jinping s book Up and Out of Poverty , the development experts, some from Zimbabwe, said it was important for African leaders to instil confidence in investors.Mr Wang said African countries should consider development features that suited their conditions and realities. Poverty alleviation requires a change of attitude, he said. Developing the economy should be the top priority for alleviating poverty. For us in China, we have embarked on alleviating poverty using our own features with Chinese characteristics. We are ready to share our experiences on governance with Africa, but we will never impose our ways on anyone, he said. We concentrate 100 percent effort on development and we have rallied the whole nation, as a result we are now the second developing country in the world within a few decades. Mr Wang said China was committed to helping Africa eradicate poverty as enunciated by President Xi at the Forum for China-Africa Cooperation in South Africa in 2015.He said cooperation between China and Africa was based on the win-win concept.Chairperson of the African Union Commission Mr Moussa Faki Mahamat said an important development lesson for Africa from China was how it managed to eliminate poverty. With its 2063 vision, Africa has decided to approach its future full of promises, he said. We need technology, agricultural modernisation and we need to look at the best tracks we can follow. I have no doubt that Africa will continue to interest China in terms of infrastructural development. China and Africa have a beautiful history of common struggle against colonialism and Africa has always been drawing important lessons from China. A member of the National Committee of Chinese People s Political Consultative Conference Mr Huang Youyi said there was need for change of mentality towards fighting poverty. It is important for impoverished regions to rely on their advantages to eliminate poverty, he said. Each village can focus on a specialised product and add value on it. The director of the Zimbabwe Economic Policy Analysis and Research Unit Dr Gibson Chigumira said Africa was a paradox, where it was rising in various areas, yet poverty persisted. This means we have to reform and promote pro-poor growth, he said. Countries should look at their comparative advantages. There is need for human capital development, diversification and increasing security. &nbsp;