Model Sikhulile Shumba ( second from right) walked away with a Honda Fit after she was crowned Miss Mt Pleasant Constituency and beat 20 other girls.Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Writer Model Sikhulile Shumba walked away with a Honda Fit after she was crowned Miss Mt Pleasant Constituency, beating 20 other girls for the coveted crown. She was voted as Miss Talent too and also received consolation prizes from Oceans perfumes. In an interview, Shumba said was happy to be crowned Miss Mt Pleasant. I am happy and shocked at the same time. This means a lot to me, she said. Florence Chikomo was voted first princess while second princess position went to Vimbai Mungofa and crowd s favorite Betty Chinzou was crowned Miss Personality.Zimbabwe Tourism Authority chief executive officer Karikoga Kaseke then offered to give the top three finalist a three night s trip to Victoria Falls. Mt Pleasant legislator Jaison Pasade said was excited about the event. I am happy that everything went according to plan. The girls have more responsibilities than boys hence there is need to help them discover their talents. I promise to find chicken projects for the youths to help them develop themselves, he said.Legislator Pasade promised to continue offering free driving lessons to the girl child and to help those supplementing their ordinary levels with free lessons.The event was hosted by former radio personality Candice Mwakyalele and former Wenera actor cum Pastor Jefferson Muserera. Vivacious award winner songstress was one of the red carpet hosts who also gave fashion stylists, celebrities, socialites and musicians who attended the event a fair share of the red carpet moments.In terms on entertainment Mbare dancehall sensation Killer T stole limelight. Killer T who battled it out his hit songs Itai Ndione , and Chikorobho among others proved that he is a force to reckon as he put up a scintillating performance.The Takangodaro hitmaker did not disappoint as he also managed to interact well with his fans. Amongst other performers of the night included Diamond Musica, Trevor Dongo, Baba Shupi and Jimmy of Extra Large fame who also put a top notch show.&nbsp;