Emmanuel Makandiwa And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD is in this place; and I knew it not.And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven (Genesis 28:16-17) What keeps you afloat and what makes you to stay above your situation is when you have mastered fear. Fear is the other reason why people lose their altitude. According to the scripture above, the first thing that made Jacob to leave the place which was meant for him was lack of revelation. The second thing that took him out of that place was fear.There are places that are designed for our success but whether you stay in such places your fear has to decide. People are so much afraid of things they do not understand. In certain cases the best way to deal with your fear is to keep on asking questions. If you keep on asking questions, the answers that you get will then deal with your fears. Most of the fears that people have is a result of ignorance. If they are not informed in a particular area they tend to fear that area. Keeping on asking questions is going to help you to muster your fears in a certain area.You do not have to be afraid, God did not give us the spirit of fear. You might be facing something worth fearing but you do not have a right from God to fear anything. Fear is a disease that you do not have to keep. Over and over again in the scriptures you come across the words Fear Not . Fear is not a blessing or a gift from God.Jacob could not stay in a good place given to him by God because he was afraid. He lost the place because of fear. Many people underestimate the effects of fear. When you become courageous and confident, every level that you want to attain in life you will stay there and you will keep on rising. You have to manage your fear.In Job 3:25 you hear Job saying, For the thing which I greatly feared is come upon me, and that which I was afraid of is come unto me. Job had many things he was afraid of in his life but the devil attacked him at the point of his greatest fear. God had blessed Job so much and placed him into his own Bethel but he could not stay in that place of influence because he was afraid of losing what he had.Job lived in his fear long enough until the devil came, the devil then used what Job feared to make him lose his place of influence. What brought Job down was not just the devil but his own fear that he developed over a period of time. He was afraid of one thing until it manifested in his life.Fear can end up producing failure and disappointment for you. Fear is a creative force, it makes things that are not there to be there. It creates false realities. You can live for the next hundred years and still be afraid of death. Fear has to be managed and dealt with. If you have God on your side you do not have to be afraid. To Jacob the place was dreadful for him and he could not stay there. Fear of the place made him to leave the place.In the book of Matthew 14 when the disciples saw Jesus walking on water they were afraid of Him. After Peter learnt that it was Jesus, he asked Jesus to allow him to come. He was actually willing to confront his fear. The rest were afraid of Jesus but Peter actually wanted to go there where their fear was. When he was now walking on water, because of the winds that were blowing Peter was now afraid.It is so clear in the Bible that it was because of fear that Peter began to sink. It means fear puts weight upon your spirit and upon your body. Every person you have seen going down in life, what is taking him down is the weight of fear.When fear comes upon you, you cannot remain afloat, prosperous and anointed. When fear comes upon you, you only have one direction which is downwards. Fear brings people down. That same moment fear entered into the heart of Peter he began to sink.You sink because of fear, not because of a disease or you do not have a job. You do not sink because you do not have money, you sink because of fear of not having money. Peter was willing to come out of his comfort zone and to face his fears.People can work in organisations that are not paying them anything for 30-50 years afraid of coming out because they do not have a revelation of their next level if they are to leave that place. What made Jacob to leave Bethel was because he was afraid, there was no company there and he was the only person in that place.He had a promise that he was going to get a wife and yet he was in a place where he could not see anyone. He was alone and yet God was there with him. He was on a journey looking for something that was already looking for him.What makes people uncomfortable in Bethel is because they cannot really see what they are looking for. Bethel is a mysterious place, I cannot say you find everything there but everything finds you in Bethel. It is a system where what you have to be looking for has to look for you.That is why there was a ladder from heaven because that is where things will come looking for you. It is one thing to look for money and it s another thing for money to look for you. Bethel brings things to you and Jacob was not comfortable with that because he could not see anybody in that place. He decided to go and join the company of people.People are afraid especially when they are in a place where they think they are lonely. When fear is upon you, it is a natural reaction to want to leave or run away from what you are afraid of.It is natural, if you are afraid of a lion you run away from it. Any place that is so fearful you would not want to stay there. You are designed to really avoid your fears and to run away from what you fear. But in this case if you are in the presence of God you do not have to run away no matter how dreadful it might be.Feedback: https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwahttps://twitter.com/prmakandiwahttps://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwa/Helpline: +263 4 339 341[email&#160;protected] mailto:[email&#160;protected]