TEHRAN. Gunmen and suicide bombers attacked Iran s parliament in central Tehran and the Mausoleum of Ayatollah Khomeini in south of the city, killing at least 12 people. Four armed assailants attacked parliament office buildings yesterday morning, while the shrine of the revolutionary founder Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini was struck by a suicide bomber, state media reported.One of the attackers on Iran s parliament complex blew himself up on the fourth floor, while under siege by security forces, state broadcaster IRIB reported.Lawmaker Elias Hazrati told state television that three attackers, one with a pistol and two with AK-47 assault rifles, raided office buildings at the parliament complex. At least 40 people were wounded in the attacks, officials said.ISNA news agency quoted a member of parliament as saying that all the parliament doors were shut and access to the parliament complex was sealed by police.Iran s semi-official Tasnim news agency said the siege at parliament was over and that four attackers had been killed. There was panic going through the streets of the capital because of the attacks. It was chaos inside the parliament, Al Jazeera s Andrew Simmons said. It is very likely that these attacks were coordinated. It s hardly a coincidence that it happened within minutes of each other. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL, also known as ISIS) group claimed responsibility for the attacks via its online forum. If genuine, the claim marks the first major attack of the group inside Iran. Fighters from the Islamic State (ISIL) attacked the Khomeini mausoleum and the parliament building in Tehran, the Amaq agency said, citing a security source .ISIL later posted a video, showing what it claimed was footage from inside the parliament building. The video showed a bloody, lifeless body of a man lying on the ground next to a desk.A voice on the video praised God and said in Arabic: Do you think we will leave? We will remain, God willing. Another voice repeats the same words. The two appeared to be parroting a slogan used by ISIL spokesman Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, who was killed in Syria last year. These criminal acts will further strengthen your country s resolve to defeat terrorists and fully uproot them. They will increase your (Iran s) role in the war against terrorism, the read Lebanese diplomat s message to Rouhani. Our position on terrorism is very clear . . . Any terrorist attack in any country, in any capital, directed at innocent people is something that the UAE abhors and the UAE condemns, Emirati State Minister for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash commented. Press TV/Al Jazeera/News agencies.