Diamond MusicaArts Correspondent Rhumba group Diamond Musica will tonight begin a collaboration with talented singer Wellington Bitumba Maruta at a show at Jazz 24/7. The collaboration is expected to move to other venues in the next weeks as the musicians solidify their relationship. Diamond Musica has performed at the venue several times and Bitumba will be joining them for a dance with music fans that usually throng the venue. Bitumba, who is popularly known as Dr Bitumba, will be using his vast experience in music to win hearts and pursue his mission to take songs to the people.He is a music teacher who has worked at Morgen Zintec College and produced good stars that have started their own careers in the industry. He started recording in 2013 and formed his band Music D Afrique that plays a rhumba-jazz fusion rooted in Congolese and local beats.The group has an advantage of using various languages that include Lingala, Swahili, Bamba, Zulu and Tswana. Bitumba released his first single Wange Uripi in 2013 and did his first album Rwemandorokwati in 2014. He released Makomborero in 2015, Wedenga in 2016 and this year he did Kumusha Ekhaya .Dr BitumbaMost of his songs received massive airplay and he has been doing shows at various venues. The musician said he is looking forward to tonight s show and would reunite with his fans. We have something in common with Diamond Musica because my music also has rhumba elements. This collaboration will likely take us to a higher level as we combine forces, said Bitumba. My guys are raring to go and I know they will leave a mark. They have always done well when they go on stage and we promise our fans the best. Pitchou Lumiere of Diamond Musica said they were happy to work with Bitumba. Dr Bitumba is doing well with his music style. We have worked together before and we know the collaboration will go places. said Pitchou. Diamond Musica has not performed in Harare in a number of weeks since we launched our single Diamond Fire that is doing well. We are happy to be back in the city to take the single to the people and also continue showcasing our new dance Katete Kateteso . We invite everyone to Jazz 24/7. Jazz 24/7 manager Yasin Dhala said the rhumba session was popular at their place and they are glad to have the performers. There are many of our patrons that love rhumba. We are happy to have the rhumba groups for our Friday. It promises to be a memorable night as fans swirl and gyrate to rhumba vibes. 