RaydizzTawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent Popular wheel spinners Rayhaam Jassat popularly known as DJ Raydizz and Rax are set to dazzle at the One Big Party to be held at Newslands on July 1 this year. The event will see Soul Jah Love and Trevor Dongo performing. DJ Raydizz has been in the music industry for almost 13 years and has done a number of collaborations with several musicians.His electrifying performances have also ignited several uptown joints making him one of the biggest assets in the music industry.Ray Dizz is a Zimbabwean born artiste, designer and DJ who has become one of the most sought after performing wheel spanner.His love affair with design music began when he was a teenager. Talent and passion pushed me to study at Totton College (Southampton, UK) where I attained an Arts and Design Degree, he said.Raydizz once performed at The Ministry of Sound in London. I utilised that opportunity to collaborate with several artistes that include DJ Semtex and Dready (Lloyd Bank s Any Girl), he said.In 2009, RayDizz returned home and hit the ground running with Zimbabwe s most popular club DJ s Rax.The following year he won The Zimbabwean Battle of the DJ s competition and in 2011, Ray notched up more achievements as he was selected to open for American artiste Sean Kingston during his Harare show. I became the first Zimbabwean DJ to perform at DSTV s popular reality show, Big Brother Africa Amplified (2012), as well as open up for P-Square, Ice Prince, Davido. Indeed, it was an amazing experience, he said.In 2014, RayDizz beat out competition from Zimbabwe and South Africa to win the Miller SoundClash competition. The prize included a one year Brand Ambassador deal for Miller Genuine Draft and the honour of being the first Zimbabwean DJ to play the big room at the world famous Marquee Club in Las Vegas, he added.To date Ray has released several singles as a producer and performing artist that have become radio and club anthems.RayDizz was invited to be the first guest on the re-launch of Zimbabwe s most popular music variety show Coke On The Beat.Turning to One Big Party, the DJ said they will leave lasting memories at the event. We are ready for the event that is fast gaining ground. Together with Rax we are taking it to be one of the events we will prove ourselves, he said.