Alexis SanchezLONDON. &#8211; Alexis Sanchez fears Arsenal will block him moving to Manchester City, leaving Bayern Munich as his only escape route. Arsenal have told Sanchez they will not cave into his attempts to engineer a move to an English Premier League soccer rival this summer. The Gunners remain determined to secure the Chile star on a new long-term contract but will be forced to sell their star player if he refuses to sign.Sanchez s representatives have explored moves to Manchester City and Chelsea in recent weeks. But Arsenal are adamant they will not entertain any offers from English clubs regardless of whether or not he signs a new contract.That leaves Bayern Munich or Juventus as the South American s most realistic escape routes if he leaves the Emirates this summer. City and Chelsea are both willing to pay in excess of 45million for Sanchez. But Arsenal are not interested in strengthening one of their direct rivals. Despite the season having drawn to a close Sanchez is still showing himself to be in fine form, providing a vital assist in Chile s recent 1-1 draw with Russia.The Arsenal man came on as a substitute in the game and, with his first meaningful contribution, sent Mauricio Isla through on goal. Arsenal are hoping to tie up Sanchez s future sooner rather than later before they can press ahead with transfer intent of their own.Sanchez (28) has one year left on his current 130 000-a-week contract at the Emirates and has been offered in excess of 275 000-a-week to stay at Arsenal. It is likely to become this summer s biggest transfer saga, but Arsenal are desperate to play hardball to stop him going to City, a move that would infuriate their fans. City are willing to pay 50million as Pep Guardiola wants to make him part of a 250million summer revamp of the Etihad squad.City have already spent 78million to land two of their top targets in Ederson and Bernardo Silva and will splash out again to buy Kyle Walker and a left-back.They have now made Sanchez their No. 1 priority and believe he wants to come to the Etihad but are fully aware of Arsenal s reluctance to do business. &#8211; The Daily Mail.