Emmanuel Makandiwa But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. James 1:22One of the most difficult things in life that normally creates problems for people is misunderstanding. Sometimes you might not realise how critical being misunderstood is until you are misunderstood. Understanding is a gift that can be and should be developed. You will never understand anything until you put effort.Hearing the word of God and not doing it is a way of deceiving yourself and not the preacher per se. The word has to be done and practiced after hearing. Every time you hear the word you have to move into the next stage which is doing the word.Every person that hears the word should be given an opportunity to do what he has just heard. Doing has to come soon after hearing. You hear in order for you to do. The word that will benefit your life is the word that you practice.We have classes of people. Some are dedicated and committed, they come to church every service just to hear and never do. But you need to hear the word and move into doing the word, which means the word has to influence your actions. Everything you do has to be influenced by the messages you hear.If you do not practice the word you are simply deceiving yourself. You can be in an environment where you are given information and your life can never change.Hearing and doing the word answers the question why after a lecture or lesson at universities or schools you are given a test. After you have heard you have to move on into doing what you have just heard. A test is a proof that you have heard. It is not given to you so that you hear but so that you do.Many people do not understand that after hearing the word every time there are tests and temptations that are triggered by the word that you hear.You are supposed to be proven; after hearing you are moved into action. Something will happen immediately after hearing the word of God just to prove if you are a doer of the word that you have heard.You have to ask yourself why such a thing happens after a powerful service.Why after a conference something horrible like that happens? Why am I under such an attack after I have just heard? It is because soon after hearing, the word has to be practised. After hearing the word of God there has to be a test to prove your willingness to do it.You cannot really decide what to hear but you can decide what to listen to. It is not really your decision to hear, but it is your decision to listen. Most of the things around us are producing sounds but you choose what to listen to.You cannot decide what you hear because people will always talk but you can make a decision not to listen. The reason why all the things around you are making sounds is because they want to be heard. They know that you are hearing but decide what you want to listen to.If you want to listen and understand position yourself. Put yourself in a place where you can properly listen and understand. I will stand upon my watch, and set me upon the tower, and will watch to see what he will say unto me, and what I shall answer when I am reproved. (Habakkuk 2:1).God speaks but there is a proper place where you can stand where you can hear, listen and understand him.You do not hear, listen and understand from every place. In other words Prophet Habakkuk is saying that he will stand on a strategic place and wait for God to speak.If God is talking to you and you are failing to hear Him every time, check your position. You might not be positioned properly in a place where you can hear, listen and understand what God is saying. Positions are very important.Even in marriage as husband and wife, what is going to help you understand your husband is only if you take a position of a wife. Everything that he is going to say you will hear him, listen to him and understand him from a wife s perspectives.The moment you move away from your position as a wife and you listen to your husband from a different position you will be shocked that many of the things you think he is not sharing with you he is always sharing them with you. But you are not hearing. You hear many wives saying that their husband does not communicate.That can be true but that can also be a very big lie. Maybe it is just that you have not really mustered the way that he communicates. You are not willing to hear him from his own position and from your own position.People do not make deliberate efforts to understand the people they are willing to serve. Serving is a quickest way into your destiny, finding somebody you can serve is the quickest way of discovering your purpose.Look at the life of Ruth, what led her into her marital destiny was serving. She looked for something which was of great concern to Boaz. Boaz had a problem she was willing to solve even before she could become the wife.There was a field and Boaz was looking for workers, she was willing to be part of those workers that are coming to solve his many problems. It was during that time when she was serving by picking corn that she ended up picking her own destiny. Lives and destinies are realised as people are serving other people.Sometimes it is just that our concept of marriage is wrong. If you say that your husband has a problem and you complain about it, you are complaining about the only reason why he married you.It is like your job is to pick papers and you complain about people throwing papers everywhere. If your husband has a problem do not complain about it. That is what God saw then He created you.He saw that problem on your husband and decided that it was not good for him to be alone. Your husband has a problem and God knows that and that is why He provided you.Feedback: https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwahttps://twitter:com/prmakandiwahttps://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwa/Helpline: +263 4 339341[email&#160;protected]mailto:[email&#160;protected]