Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter PREPARATIONS for the first So-Kyokushin International tournament in this country are taking shape with the organisers settling for Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex as the venue for the event. The tournament, slated for July 22, is expected to attract fighters from countries such as Iran and Japan who are ranked among the powerhouses in karate.So-Kyokushin development committee acting chairperson, Kelvin Ben, confirmed the venue for the tournament. We had a meeting yesterday (Thursday), it was very successful. We resolved that Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex is our venue, said Ben.ZKU president, Paul Danisa, said they are bringing the sport to the people. What I can say is we have the venue. We settled for Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex. What I like about that is we are taking karate to the high density, we are taking this international tournament to the people. And I think in a week s time we will be highlighting who have confirmed. I think it s an opportunity for the ordinary individuals to get exposed to international sport for both fighters and fans. But more importantly for the fans, this competition has attracted a lot of male and female fighters. It s an opportunity for the girl child in Zimbabwe to see that other women can do it, one or two children can be inspired. We have had athletes that have gone to Iran and done well but not everyone has been able to go but the tournament coming here it gives everyone the opportunity to showcase their talent. It maybe the first time for some at this level but most of them have been doing karate for a while and what they needed is an opportunity, which has not been coming for a while because of funds, said Danisa.Danisa, who is also the local organising committee chairperson, emphasised the importance of ensuring that athletes were ready for event.Some of the local athletes that have entered for this tournament include seasoned fighters such as Tangayi Mhlanga, Brighton Muyambo and the Mucheni brothers &#8211; Robson and Austin and Naison Chituwa.The women s section will feature the likes of Precious Kazembe, who has represented the country in regional events before, and ZTV main news anchor Rumbidzai Takawira.The tournament is open to other full contact styles.