Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter BLACK Rhinos coach Stanford Stix Mtizwa believes it will be difficult to collect maximum points against Shabanie at Maglas tomorrow as the army side will be missing three key men through suspensions. Chauya Chipembere, who sit on top of the Castle Lager Premiership standings following an impressive midweek win over Highlanders, will be without Donald Mudadi, Cliff Chitsamba and man-of-the-moment Sydney Linyama.The trio has been suspended after accumulating three yellow cards each in previous outings.Linyama is playing the game of his life since leaving Dynamos and has become a vital cog in a partnership with skipper Bruce Homora in the heart of defence. I am very worried because three of my players are suspended. To me, they are the pillars of the team. We play as a team, but the three have a special place and their absence will be felt, said Mtizwa. I am going to have a work out tomorrow (today) and give confidence to those coming in. The away match is very tricky and I no longer want to drop points. I have just discovered that we have a bright chance of winning the league because chances are there and we no longer want to drop points. It s not going to be easy, but we will give our best. The former Zimbabwe international, who turns 60 in August, wants to bring back yesteryear memories when he won the league as a player with Black Rhinos.Rhinos have 26 points and have a better goal difference over Ngezi Platinum Stars.Shabanie Mine coach Takesure Chiragwi said he has respect for Rhinos. They are a good team and they have a fighting spirit, but the most important thing is for us to prepare and utilise our home advantage. We lost to Triangle and we should collect points. We are not safe and I am not even comfortable with the number of points we have collected. I am happy that Maxwell (Murimi) and Admire (Dzumbunu), who missed the Triangle trip are back, but Farai (Mupasiri) is still out, said Chiragwi.Taurai Mangwiro returns to the capital tomorrow to face his former paymasters Harare City, who are under new coach Philani Beefy Ncube. I think we have again put ourselves in a very good position, but it s like every time that we find ourselves in such a position, we falter, said Mangwiro. I believe this time we have to win back-to-back for the first time. Everyone is happy with our last win, but it will be much better if we can back it up with another victory. I know that it will not be easy, especially facing a team in the situation of Harare City. I worked with three quarters of the players and it means they have a hint of what to expect from our team because I was with these guys for over one-and-half years, said MangwiroElsewhere, it will be a battle of the national team coaches, Sunday Chidzambwa and Norman Mapeza, at Nyamhunga this afternoon.&nbsp;