Timothy HogoTafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter After his disappearance from ZBC TV and Power FM Zimbabwe there was speculation about his whereabouts in broadcasting and his new home. US-based Zimbabwean radio and television personality Timothy Hogo affectionately known as Timtang has confirmed he is back on radio at 1873 FM in the US. 1873 FM is an African radio station based in SA with other branches in the US. Hogo has started presenting a programme of Zimbabwe Championships of Performing Arts called Road to Hollywood Radio with co-host Ronnie Macheme on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.The show aims to tap into what drives people to achieve their dreams and also help raising funds for the Zimbabwean contestants that were scouted by ZICOPA to represent their country at the World Championship of Performing Arts to be held in Hollywood, California, US next month. In an interview, the multi award-winning radio personality-cum-model said he did not see the opportunity coming. It was quite a surprise for me. This is a great opportunity and I want to thank ZICOPA and 1873 FM for considering me. I promise to deliver and add flavour on the new slot. I am going to include humour and since I will be dealing with current affairs, lifestyle, human development and community progress issues, he said. The 24-year-old said the slot works very well with him considering his flexibility. I am aware of the magnitude of the slot but in the end radio is radio. Radio is 24/ 7 medium so preparation is constant, but I have taken time to understand the main aim and objectives of the show and its programming. For critics, I am much prepared and if I were to have been worried about them then my nine years in broadcasting would have been short lived, he said.Hogo left the national broadcaster eight months ago after joining the station at the age of 14 as a television presenter. He anchored Youth Magazine Shows, My Tyme, YGT, Live broadcast for junior parliament and was host on some modelling pageants locally .Last year he was amongst the ZICOPA contestants and excelled well in modelling. Apart from being on the microphone, he is pursuing a career in modelling while in US. Of late, he has featured on US popular brands the US BSG and Legacy Fashion House.