LONDON. &#8211; Chelsea are poised to make Alex Sandro the world s most expensive defender this week as they launch a 100million double deal. The Blues are on the verge of agreeing a fee with Juventus for Brazil left-back Sandro, after making an improved offer worth just over 61 million. Monaco midfielder Tiemoue Bakayoko is due in England in the next 48 hours to finalise his 37 million move, while Blues boss Antonio Conte will step up his interest in Southampton defender Virgil van Dijk.Sandro s fee would eclipse the 50m illion Paris Saint-Germain paid to buy his countryman David Luiz from Chelsea three years ago.After he lands Sandro and Bakayoko, Conte will turn his attention to Van Dijk his top centre-back target.The champions are planning to test Saints resolve with a 60 million bid for the 25-year-old.Chelsea s determination to land the Dutchman represents an immediate headache for new Southampton boss Mauricio Pellegrino, though the champions may have to top the fee they are prepared to splash out on Sandro to land Van Dijk.Saints have fended off Liverpool after their attempts to land the defender, sparked a tapping-up row and forced the Reds to drop their interest.St Mary s insiders insist that with Van Dijk still having five years left on his deal and them having no desire to sell, it could take an offer in excess of 70m to make them reconsider their defiant stance.With Everton striker Romelu Lukaku, who the Blues value at 75million, also in Conte s sights, his spree this summer could hit around 250million. Though that figure will be offset by some departures.Bakayoko s arrival will cast doubt over the future of anchorman Nemanja Matic. Conte is keen to keep him, as he wants two players for every position, but the Serbian is concerned about seeing his game time reduced and is keen on a reunion with his former Stamford Bridge boss Jose Mourinho at Manchester United.Defender Nathan Ake could also be squeezed out, and Bournemouth are making a fresh 20million move for the 22 year-old who had a successful loan spell at the Vitality Stadium last season.The Cherries have already given Chelsea 10million this summer for goalkeeper Asmir Begovic, who will be replaced as the Blues back-up keeper by Willy Caballero after he left Manchester City at the end of his contract.Forward Bertrand Traore, who was on loan with Europa League finalists Ajax in Holland last season, is also heading for the exit in a 16million move to French side Lyon, as a potential replacement for Arsenal target Alexandre Lacazette.Meanwhile, Everton striker Lukaku has hit out at speculation that he could soon return to Chelsea, writing on Twitter that the rumours were bulls . . . Lukaku, who has two years remaining on his Everton contract, has been strongly linked with his former club after he said he would not sign a new Goodison Park deal.Over the weekend, the Belgium international shared video that showed him playing five-a-side football in the United States on a pitch surrounded by Chelsea logos.That led to renewed speculation that a switch to Stamford Bridge was closer, but Lukaku wrote: Hearing all this BS again. It s just a five-a-side game people! Some of you need to chill. Earlier this month, Lukaku said he and his agent have an agreement with another club, adding that he intended to remain in the Premier League.Speaking to reporters in Belgium while on international duty, Lukaku, who said staying at Everton was not really an option, added: I know what s happening. But I can t tell you anything more. I know what s happening, but I will leave the talks to my agent. The most important thing is I want to win trophies. We are now talking to the club. As for the rest, I m looking ahead. What I would like most is to play is in the Champions League and try to win the Premier League once. Or better, a few times. That would be the most beautiful thing. &#8211; The Mirror.