From Paul Mundandi in ZvishavaneShabanie Mine &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;.. (1)1FC Platinum&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;.(1) 1 THE Zvishavane derby lived to its billing yesterday when both teams fought tenaciously and settled for a draw that left thousands of fans satisfied after a thrilling show at Maglas yesterday.A third minute strike from Talent Chawapihwa for FC Platinum and a Shabanie equaliser from Wellington Taderera 12 minutes later was all the two sides needed.The match was delayed for about 20 minutes following an order from the PSL who wanted the hundreds of fans who were still outside to get access to the stadium and watch the action.It was also a good afternoon for Bikita based referee Arnold Ncube and his assistants who were given a standing ovation by Shabanie Mine fans.The fans saluted the referees who managed to handle the tension filled match.It was also a day on which Chawapihwa showed fans that he is very good at dribbling with William Mapfumo showing them that age is just a number as the two were outstanding in the derby. FC Platinum who were playing a passing game and were rewarded when midfielder Rodwell Chinyengetere got the better of Mapfumo on the right.He then sent a cross in the box and Hilary Bakacheza with his back at goal cleverly passed the ball onto the livewire Chawapihwa whose shot from inside the box whistled past Samuel Mafukidze.The score did not silence the spirit of the Chinda Boys fans who kept on rallying behind their team and were rewarded 12 minutes later.Dylan Nyandoro rushed to a long clearance on the right and controlled the ball well before threading a defence-splitting pass to Taderera.The midfielder coolly controlled the ball and slotted it past goalkeeper Petros Mhari who had come out of his line in an attempt to deny Taderera.Chawapihwa who was causing all sorts of problem could have increased the tally for the visitors when he want past Mapfumo but he shot weakly and the impressive Mafukidze saved the ball. As if the derby belonged to the two players earlier on Taderera had seen his header cleared from the line by Mhari.A number of fans thought the ball had gone in but assistant referee Tainec Mwadira who was well positioned kept his flag down.FC Platinum were missing the services of injured former Hwange hitman Gift Mbweti and the Mhangura born utility player William Sitima. Shabanie s youthful coach Takesure Chiragwi was happy with the outcome. It was a 50-50 game and It was a pity that we conceded early. We managed to come back very strongly and I am happy with the fighting attitude shown by my players. It was a good day for my players and both set of fans because they enjoyed football. I have a lot of respect to Norman (Mapeza) He is my former coach, he made me to be what I am and he has a good team. The match today (yesterday) had no personal issues. It was not Chiragwi versus Mapeza but it was Shabanie playing FC Platinum. I loved the spirit, I loved the respect shown by the fans to both sets of teams including the match officials. I applaud everyone for coming and enjoying the game, he said.FC Platinum assistant coach Lizwe Sweswe was also happy with the result. It was a fair result to us. Shabanie Mine are playing well just like us. It s however, time we must start collecting maximum points but however, one point away from home is not bad, said Sweswe. The derby attracted a number of soccer loving fans who travelled all the way from South Africa, a number of sports journalists, coaches and former players.