Fungai Lupande Court Reporter Former Chitungwiza Municipality acting director of housing Kennedy Dube was on Tuesday implicated in the double allocation of a developed stand in Unit C Seke, Chitungwiza. This emerged in the trial of Privilege Tirivavi (29) who is accused of criminally trespassing at stand number 22930 which belongs to Felistas Shumba. Shumba was the first to be allocated the stand in 2005 and built up to slab level. She returned to the stand in 2017 to find that Shumba had built a house on and was occupying the stand.They both have documents for the same stand from the municipality. Testifying in court, Chitungwiza Municipality district officer Mr Innocent Makumbe said the stand was allocated to Shumba on July 1, 2005. She is still the owner of the stand. She was issued a lease agreement which was signed on August 23, 2005 by the town clerk. All the documents of the stand were done and checked at the head office, said Mr Makumbe. When the accused found a slab at that stand, he was supposed to report back to the municipality for further investigations. Asked by the prosecutor Mrs Itai Beula Chikono why the two lease agreements were signed by responsible people, Mr Makumbe said Tirivavi s documents were signed by Dube.The matter was postponed to June 20. Mrs Chikono alleged that sometime in 2005 Shumba bought a residential stand and was allocated stand number 22930 Unit C Seke Chitungwiza. She started developing the stand and built to slab level. All the stages were inspected by council. She then placed a cabin at the stand as a temporary structure to safeguard her building materials.She left her brother at the stand. The court heard that later the brother fell ill and moved from the stand. It is alleged that Shumba checked her stand in 2016 and everything was in good shape.On April 20 this year she went back and discovered that the stand had had further developments. She also discovered that someone was occupying the stand. It is alleged that Shumba went to Chitungwiza Municipality and was advised to report to the police.Investigations revealed that Tirivavi also had documents for the same stand.