Cde KasukuwereFelex Share Senior Reporter Zanu-PF structures yesterday resisted machinations by embattled national commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere to impose authority on them by calling for an urgent meeting with provincial chairpersons, ostensibly to audit party structures ahead of next year s elections. The structures said Cde Kasukuwere should first wait for the Politburo verdict on the allegations he is facing before carrying out commissariat work.The national commissar, who has been rejected by nine of the 10 provinces, is accused of creating parallel structures in Zanu-PF, fanning divisions and corruption. Only five provincial chairpersons attended yesterday s meeting, while the other five gave excuses.Observers said the excuses were a clear sign that party structures no longer respected Cde Kasukuwere as head of the commissariat department. It is understood that most of the chairpersons who attended the meeting only did so for fear of reprisals.Those who attended yesterday s meeting were Cdes Dickson Mafios (Mashonaland Central), Charles Tawengwa (Harare), Bernard Makokove (Mashonaland East), Samuel Undenge (Manicaland) and Ephraim Chengeta (Mashonaland West).Matabeleland North chairperson Cde Richard Moyo said he was not part of the meeting. I have other engagements in the province and I did not attend that meeting, he said.Matabeleland South chairperson Cde Rabelani Choeni said: We were busy at the weekend with the burial of Cde Naison Ndlovu. Today we are busy again, as well as tomorrow. We are organising for the African Union cattle to go for an auction. Midlands Cde Daniel Mackenzie said he was invited, but had other engagements. They phoned me over the weekend and I told them I am away and I never heard anything from them since then, he said.Bulawayo s chairperson Cde Dennis Ndlovu said: I was not there because I am not feeling well. Masvingo chairperson Cde Ezra Chadzamira said he was never invited to the meeting.Cde Mafios said they had discussed party programmes. I attended and we were organising the party, he said. We are going for elections and we have to ensure that we reactivate our systems and verify party structures in line with the biometric voter registration system. Cdes Makokove, Chengeta and Tavengwa confirmed attending the meeting. Sources yesterday said the haphazard call for meetings by Cde Kasukuwere was a sign of desperation. He is testing waters, but the fact remains, provinces have rejected him, said a source. Telling someone to come for a meeting within 24 hours is a sign that he is not organised. It means he is following certain developments, but he should take it easy and wait for his fate. If you see people giving excuses now and then, know that something is wrong, they no longer respect you. Cde Kasukuwere recently came under fire for flouting party procedures by unilaterally disqualifying Cde Pearson Mbalekwa from contesting the July 15 Chiwundura by-election on the revolutionary party s ticket.He disqualified Cde Mbalekwa via a text message from Mexico, where he was attending the United Nations World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction.President Mugabe appointed a team led by Speaker of the National Assembly and Politburo member Cde Jacob Mudenda to investigate events leading to Cde Kasukuwere receiving votes of no confidence from the nine provinces.The team went to Mashonaland Central, Cde Kasukuwere s home province, which kick-started the process of passing the votes of no confidence. The probe team has completed its report, which is expected to be tabled in the next Politburo meeting.