It is therefore important for African governments to uphold the AU Youth Charter and engage youth on their role in good governanceLennon Monyae Correspondent The 1976, June 16 spirit of South African young people should not be forgotten. More than ever, African youth need their respective governments to play ball. In Zimbabwe, the liberation struggle movement would have not been successful without the participation of young people. Zimbabwe and South Africa like most African countries, the youth remain destitute. It is this youth that is expected to deliver a better future generation. The question is how can the youth be expected to lead tomorrow if their governments are not investing in their future? Africa is the youngest population in the world with more than 1,2 billion people. More than 60 percent of this population are 25 years or younger. Statisticians project that by 2050, the population would have reached 2,4 billion. The African Union (AU) earmarked 2017 as Year of the Youth with the theme Harnessing the Demographic Dividend through Investment in Youth . It is however, unfortunate that most African youths are a forgotten constituency.Africa is not only well endowed by natural resources, but also a young and vibrant youth population. Unfortunately, this young population faces the harsh realities that come from poor governance such as conflict, unemployment and disease. Images of young people desperately attempting to cross the Mediterranean in search for a better life in Europe are haunting reminders of the duty that African leaders have in securing a better future for their young generation.Articles 10 and 14 of the AU Youth Charter offer expositions on the content of the right to development of African youth. It is therefore important for African governments to uphold the AU Youth Charter and engage youth on their role in good governance. In South Africa, where the month of June is dedicated to the youth, it is important for the government to consolidate the broader aspirations of young people. One of these aspirations is free, quality and decolonised education. An education that young people can use, not only to access employment, but also create jobs.Young people are increasingly stepping to a generational continuum in leadership.The Ibrahim Index of Africa Governance (IIAG) reads that over the last decade, overall governance on the African continent has improved by one score point at the continent s average level, with 37 countries home to 70 percent of African people registering progress. Although there is average improvement, it is simply not enough to satisfy the needs of the fast-growing young population.The current governance outlook amounts to a ticking time bomb because African governments will not be able to match the attendant social, political and economic challenges, particularly those faced by young people.Limited economic opportunities, growing corruption, rising unemployment, and limited opportunities for political participation will add into the basket of already existing quagmires of instability. Global appetite for recruiting young people for violent extremism is on the rise and African youth will not be exempted from the latter.African governments should initiate frank conversations with their youth as a starting point. As for South Africa, the education funding should be prioritised by decision makers.In Zimbabwe, unemployment against the backdrop of an educated youth is a challenge. I recommend that Zimbabwe invests in young people as a means of securing their participating in the global environment. Start-up innovators should be funded as well. Leaders of the continent should perhaps look at best practices such as emulating the Rwandan government which is successfully empowering the youth in Information Communication Technology, creating what has been dubbed Kigali Silicon Valley .It is in new innovative and smart technology that has the potential to make Africa unlock its potential.Young social entrepreneurs must be supported for their businesses to thrive. We need more African owned businesses, powered by young people to enter the global market and compete with international businesses. It is therefore paramount for African governments to prioritise the needs of young people because they hold the key to the future. If given the opportunities, young people can create employment for themselves.The maxim young people are the future leaders for tomorrow will not be realised if they are not given opportunities. The Arab Spring that swept through North Africa was pushed by young people.African governments should therefore be on high alert because that failure to invest in young people will result in nothing, but instability. From Cape to Cairo, African governments can no longer afford to ignore the youth.Lennon Monyae is an International Relations expert and Wits University (South Africa) graduate.