Sports Reporter AS the countdown to the Africa Netball Championships continue, national team coach Ropafadzo Mutsauki says they are now in the final phase of their preparations and is optimistic of a successful campaign in Uganda. The championships are running from June 24 to 30 in Kampala and so far Botswana, Malawi, Uganda, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe have confirmed their participation. Mutsauki said they have invited different coaches for their training sessions tomorrow to assist in coming up with the final team to represent the country. We want to select the final 12 and two reserves. We have invited some coaches to assist us, so we are hoping they come in their numbers for the selection on Sunday (tomorrow). So far there has been a lot of improvement, everyone is now fighting for a place in the final team. It s going to be a challenge even for the coaches we are inviting because everyone is ready to play in the team. Netball is the same throughout the world and the most important thing is to know that everyone has a chance. We are confident we can beat any team. The defence and the shooting is now okay, they have clicked, said Mutsauki.Zimbabwe are going into the tournament seeking to retain the title they won in 2015. But they are likely to face tough competition from Malawi who are ranked among the top countries on the continent. Zimbabwe Netball Association secretary-general, Barbra Rice, said they have set June 22 as the departure date for Uganda. The team is in camp, they have been in camp for about a month and we are hoping that the team leaves the country on the 22nd. So far we have managed to pay funds for the participation fee, said Rice. The national association are still running around to try and raise enough money to make the trip.The senior side needs about $30 000 to cater for everything, including airfares and accommodation, during their week-long campaign in Uganda. The Under-21 side are also set to take part in the World Youth Cup from July 8 to 16 in Gaborone, Botswana.Provisional squad: Pauline Jani, Omega Muwanzi, Mercy Mkwadi, Christine Kadandare, Jemina Washeke, Ursla Ncube, Chido Chiwenga, Felistas Kwangwa, Ndaizivei Madzikangawa, Victoria Nkomo, Kudakwashe Muchongwe, Paidamoyo Tinoza, Tatenda Dziva, Patricia Mauladi, Sanele Ncube, Lynette Tanhira, Perpetua Siyachitema, Lynda Nyakotyo.