Joel ZilalaTawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent It will be a mixed affair as different dance groups, theatre productions and musicians unite for this year s edition of Hurungwe Arts Festival to be held in Karoi on July 7 and 8. The festival will use their traditional venues Chikangwe Hall, Chikangwe Tarven and Karoi Hotel. Organisers of the festival said this year they have taken aboard six prisons from Mashonaland West to battle for a theatre honours.Several theatre groups that include Bambelela Theatre ensemble from Bulawayo, Budiriro and Benina from Kadoma as well as Hurungwe Arts group will stage various plays at the festival.Running under the theme Chance to Change the festival will have performances by several musical groups from Karoi with one main act from Harare to be unveiled next week.Several dance groups have confirmed their participation in the two day festival. Groups like Baptism of Fire, Pezhuba Pachena cultural ensemble from Hwange, Beni Arinoti from Mhangura and contemporary groups.Organiser of the event Joel Zilala said they incorporated prisons to compliment Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services efforts to give inmates chance to change. This year it has been a different case because we have 6 prisons from Mashonaland West that will be battling for honours, he said.He said they wanted them to develop their artistic prowess through the festival. They will be competing and the winners will get certificates. In that way we feel they develop their talent even if they are incarcerated, Zilala added.He said the stage was set for the two day fete that has brought some positives in the province for the past years. The number of artists who registered this year was higher than the last edition. We called to registration early this year and that is the reason why they came in numbers, he said.The festival has been instrumental in exposing talents from the province with this year s edition having a number of participating groups from different provinces. For years it has been in existence the festival has brought different artistes to Karoi. We wish to develop talents from the festival as well as bringing art to the community. We are happy that sponsors have been coming on board as well the support of the community, said Zilala.