NUMERO UNO . . . Zimbabwe s Benjamin Lock beat sixth seed Baptiste Crepatte 6-3, 6-1 at Harare Sports Club yesterday to win the second tournament of the ongoing International Tennis Federation Old Mutual Futures SeriesEllina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE S Benjamin Lock put up an impressive show to win the second tournament of the ongoing International Tennis Federation Old Mutual Futures Series yesterday at Harare Sports Club when he beat the number six seed Baptiste Crepatte of France. The top seed dismissed Crepatte in straight sets 6-3, 6-1 to win his second Futures title at home, having won another one last year at the same venue. And it s his third Futures title in total. It s amazing. I mean I really said just to play a professional tournament here is incredible and huge thanks to all the sponsors and Tennis Zimbabwe for having professional tournaments in Africa. So just playing here is just a treat and then to do well here is amazing. And to win a tournament here is just nothing better . . . to win in front of a home crowd, friends and family. I am just so thrilled and it s funny (because) it s the exact same week as last year. I might have made a couple of more finals since last year leading up to this tournament. So winning this week it just means everything to me and I am so happy, said Lock.Lock had sailed through to the final when he prevailed over Jonathan Kanar on Saturday 3-6, 6-4, 6-4 in the semi-finals.Yesterday Lock won the toss and elected to serve, but had his serve broken by Crepatte in the first game. He quickly recovered, breaking Crepatte s serve to take the second game.Both players went on to hold their serves in the next two games respectively. But it was Lock who proved to be the better player of the day as he gained control to take the first set 6-3.He maintained the momentum throughout the second set to emerge the winner.The United States-based player attributed his success to the support he gets from his family, singling out his young brother Courtney for motivating him throughout the week. It s everything my parents and my family give me such strong support and they give me confidence when I am playing especially my brother Courtney. Unfortunately he couldn t play in these tournaments due to an injury. But he has been a huge key in my win this week and he really has helped me throughout the week in all my matches and today and the semi-finals yesterday (Saturday) he was amazing with support and I also want to thank Freeman (Nyamunokora), my coach I am working with right now. He is been great also, added Lock.However, it was a different story in the doubles as Lock and his partner Nathaniel Lammons lost to fellow Zimbabwean Mark Fynn and Nicolaas Scholtz of South Africa 6-3, 1-6, 7-10.After winning last week s doubles against the same opponents, Lock and Lammons were seeking to make it two in a row.But Fynn and Scholtz had other ideas as they turned the tables in their favour, playing some good tennis to win the doubles title.