Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis And when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto Him a Centurion beseeching Him, and saying, Lord, my servant lies at home sick of palsy, grievously tormented. And Jesus said unto him, I will come and heal him. The Centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my roof: but speak the Word only, and my servant shall be healed. For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me: And I say to this man, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my servant, do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard it, He marveled, and said to them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. And I say unto you, that many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the Kingdom of Heaven. But the children of the Kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said unto the Centurion, Go your way; and as you believed, so be it done unto you. And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour. Matthew 8: 5-13.This story is one of the very rare occasions where Jesus was surprised by the answer of a man. After the Centurion had requested Jesus to heal his servant, Jesus voluntarily wanted to go to his house to heal the servant.Amazingly, instead of being excited that Jesus was going to his house, the Centurion thought it was unnecessary for Jesus to walk all the way to his house, since He could heal the servant from wherever He was. Jesus was surprised, because he realised that the Centurion had great faith.The subsequent explanation of the Centurion that he is also a man under authority was profound to Jesus. To paraphrase, the Centurion was saying the king bestowed him some authority which he uses to get what he wants from his subordinates. He could give instructions and the subordinates will not question but obey because they knew he had the vested power from the king.Thus the Centurion reasoned that Jesus is the king and had the authority, which entails that He could just speak a Word of command which makes the servant to be well. In truth, Jesus didn t need to be with the servant physically for him to be healed, for we read that Jesus subsequently declared a Word and the servant was healed.In verse 12 of this chapter, Jesus spoke figuratively, but to put it in simple language, he meant that the believers are given authority from Him, but very often they don t exercise their authority.Just like the Centurion, who was a man under authority, believers are under the authority of Jesus. Jesus gives power and authority to believers to heal the sick, to command out the evil spirits and to deliver those in bondage. Believers have vested power to declare things into existence and to make things easier for themselves and people around them.Truly, believers at times want Pastors and Elders to pray for them, but I tell you that every believer was given authority to declare things into existence.The things that make many believers to cry shouldn t be, because they have the authority to command them to calm or come out of their lives. When you are facing difficult things, don t cry, declare the Word of God and those things will listen because you were given the authority by Jesus.In the 1990s, there was someone who worked for the City of Harare who told me that I m confused because I persistently requested for the land opposite City Sports centre to build our church. However, I didn t internalise his insult, but I continued to declare because I knew I m a man with vested power; a man under authority from Christ Jesus. After some time, I was given the land and right now the place opposite City Sports centre is a mall of churches, instead of a mall of shops as originally planned.I believe what God says is mine is mine; where he says I enter, I will enter. We often lack confidence and faith and we forgot that Jesus gave us the power to overcome difficult things and to declare what we want into existence.If you need a house, declare it into existence. It doesn t matter your background, where you were born you are a child of dominion and you can speak things into existence.You need to have the mentality of a king, who is not intimidated by the threats of the enemy, but is confident that he can defend his territory. The king relies on his army, but you have a greater King on your side.I tell you, with Jesus, you are truly a man under authority and good authority for that matter.Just after Namibia got its independence, I visited the country, but I didn t have a visa. I emphatically told the Immigration Officer, I don t need a visa. He called his superior. I then said to them I m a Minister of the Gospel and immediately the supervisor told him to grant me entry.I don t know whether they heard clearly the of the Gospel part, but I know that with the authority of Jesus I entered Namibia without visa. When you exercise the authority given to you by God, doors that are closed will be opened for you; rules will be modified for you to qualify.Don t think you are inferior and don t despise yourself because you are a man under authority. I like it; I live by it and I can tell you it works.If you came from a poor family that in Shona we often call Murombo haarovi chinenguwo , I want to counsel you that, when you received Christ, your position was changed because you are now a man under authority, thus you should not feel inferior.You can use the authority given to you by Jesus to transform your situation. Don t look at the current situation, focus on how things will become. Don t be proud merely about your church, but seek God so that you are under the authority of God and you will use that authority to do great exploits.Long back, when I was a young man, we had an old man in the church I used to go and one day we went to Msasa suburb to baptise new believers. Suddenly, rains came.Always remember that, For with God all things are possible Mark 10: 27.The old man surprised us because, he just said, Jesus, we agreed that we are going to baptize people today, have you changed your plans and you now want to baptize with these rains from the heaven. He then declared the rains to stop and for sun to come out, and it happened exactly like that despite the fact that less than two kilometres from where we were, lots of rains were received. That day, I learnt that nothing is impossible with faith; I learnt that a human under authority can declare great things into existence.As I conclude this article, I want to remind you that faith is the strongest currency you can have. It s stronger than the US dollar and British pound. Faith purchase and achieve much more than any monetary currency you can think of. And a man under authority should have faith, and when she/he uses the authority given to her/him, great things will happen.Always remember that, For with God all things are possible Mark 10: 27.