WASHINGTON. &#8211; CNN is reportedly implementing strict new rules for the network s stories regarding Russia. CNNMoney executive editor Rich Barbieri sent out an e-mail on Saturday regarding the network s new rules after the network a day earlier issued a retraction on one of its stories. No one should publish any content involving Russia without coming to me and Jason (Farkas), said the e-mail, obtained by BuzzFeed News. This applies to social, video, editorial, and MoneyStream. No exceptions, the e-mail added. I will lay out a work-flow Monday. The new restrictions come after CNN on Friday retracted a story that connected Anthony Scaramucci, a prominent ally of President Trump, to a Russian investment fund managed by a Kremlin-controlled bank. On June 22, 2017, CNN.com published a story connecting Anthony Scaramucci with investigations into the Russian Direct Investment Fund, the news organisation said in a statement. That story did not meet CNN s editorial standards and has been retracted. Links to the story have been disabled. CNN apologises to Mr Scaramucci. The story was posted on Thursday night, but didn t receive any air time on CNN, according to Reliable Sources host Brian Stelter.By Friday, the story was removed entirely from the website and scrubbed from the network s social media accounts, replaced with an editor s note noting the piece did not meet CNN s editorial standards and has been retracted. Scaramucci weighed in on Twitter on Saturday morning about the network s decision to pull the story, calling it a classy move. The president has dubbed CNN fake news and has made a habit of antagonising the network, refusing to call on its reporters during press briefings. Back in May, the network refused to run a 30-second television spot created by Trump s re-election campaign that featured the words fake news displayed over several journalists, including CNN s Wolf Blitzer.Many conservative figures, including the president s son Donald Trump Jr., used the retraction in an attempt to paint CNN as having an anti-Trump bias in its reporting. &#8211; News Wires.