Antonio ConteLONDON. Frank Lampard believes if Chelsea tie Antonio Conte down to a new contract it would be their signing of the summer. Conte has signalled his eagerness to stay next season but an extension to his current deal, which expires in 2019, is yet to be confirmed.The Italian is one of the most sought-after soccer coaches in Europe after leading Chelsea to the English Premier League title in his opening season at Stamford Bridge.And while the Blues are set to make a number of big-money signings this summer, Lampard, who scored 211 goals in 649 appearances for the club, says Conte would be the best. Antonio would be their most important signing &#8211; for me he was their man of the season, Lampard said. You talk about player of the year, I m all for giving the players credit but because it was such a dramatic uplift from the year before I think you have to give him huge credit. You saw the system change and how he made them play in that formation, it worked well. I think he s a huge signing for them. I have no doubts, I don t know but I m pretty confident he ll be there and they ll bring in players to play in the system he wants to play. One man who looks likely to leave Chelsea is Diego Costa, with Conte making clear to the Spain international is no longer in his plans.Romelu Lukaku is high on the list of potential replacements after the Belgian scored 25 league goals for Everton last season.Lukaku joined Chelsea as an 18-year-old in 2011 but was given limited chances in the first team and eventually moved to Merseyside three years later. Chelsea bought that player as a youngster and maybe it was too early or whether he didn t get the chances I don t know, Lampard said. But I love his attitude, the way he plays and very determined. I remember training with him and he was always practising and he wanted to score goals. I respect lads like that. He deserves the best and if Costa does move on and they want to get something like for like in the style of a big front man who scores goals then Lukaku has proved he can do that. But Chelsea will find it difficult to replace influential striker Costa if he departs in the current transfer window, Lampard said.Costa (28) has been Chelsea s top scorer in all three seasons since joining the club in 2014, leading them to two league title wins.Earlier this month, the Spain international said that he would leave Stamford Bridge after being told by Conte that he was not a part of the club s future plans. He s a fantastic striker and we all saw that last season and since he s been at Chelsea. He would be very difficult to replace, there s no doubt about it, Lampard told Sky Sports. He s an all-round physical presence that also has the quality to get goals, that s not easy to find in the modern day. Costa scored 22 goals in 42 appearances for the London side last season but the club have been linked with a move to get Everton striker Lukaku, who scored 26 goals last campaign, back to Stamford Bridge. He s (Lukaku) certainly developed to a huge degree since he left the club (in 2014), Romelu would certainly be a good option. The only thing Chelsea have to look at is the inflated market that is around now, it makes it very tough, Lampard said.Costa has said he would favour a return to former club Atletico Madrid but the Spanish side are unable to register new players until January 2018 due to a transfer ban by the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).Lampard s old teammate, John Terry, is also on the lookout for a new club after Chelsea chose not to renew his contract, which expires at the end of the month.Terry reportedly has offers from a handful of Premier League teams, as well as Birmingham and Aston Villa, while a move to China or America is also an option for the 36-year-old. I haven t spoken to him, I m not in the position to give advice because for me these decisions are completely personal, Lampard said. I know when I had my decisions to make late on in my career, they re the toughest ones I had to make because it s easy when you re 25 and you get offered contracts to go places you want to be for five years. It changes when you get older. For John it s not just football it s a family matter and it s your body and how you feel about everything. All I would say generally is if he still has a desire and feels he s ready to play on, then play on because you are a long time retired. Lampard left Chelsea in 2014 to join New York City FC before returning to England for a season on loan at Manchester City.The former England midfielder said if Terry asked about playing in Major League Soccer, he would give a glowing recommendation. If someone like John Terry is thinking of playing there, and any other players, I would only have great things to say about it, Lampard said. Go there and play, the way of life over there is brilliant, most stadiums are selling out week in week out. It s growing fast so I would only have positive things to say. ESPN