Khama BilliatSports Reporter WARRIORS assistant coach Mandla Mpofu has tipped 18-year-old forward Clive Rupiya to become one of the brightest football talents to explode in the country. The Zimbabwe youth international, who scored a brace in the match against Dynamos last week, has been a revelation at Bulawayo City with three goals in six appearances. Mpofu, who is also the Bulawayo City coach, said Rupiya was in the same mould as Warriors forward Khama Billiat.The teenage sensation had trials at Turkish giants Galatasaray recently. I have to compare him with Khama Billiat because he has the potential to reach that level and even do better. He is a complete package, said Mpofu. He can play with both legs, he is very good in the air and is technically gifted you can even see the way he turned and scored that second goal against Dynamos. In fact it s not every day that we get an 18-year-old scoring a brace against a team like Dynamos. It s not that easy. I m sure this boy will go far if he can keep his head down. So far he hasn t done anything yet. He needs to keep working hard and maintain his discipline. He has played for the national Under-20 team and I would love to see him graduating to the senior national team. Rupiya was unearthed from Division Two side Sprouting Academy, which is owned by Harare businessman Calvin Nyazema, when the Young Warriors technical team led by Mpofu conducted a countrywide scouting programme for the COSAFA tournament.Nyazema s academy also nurtured Archford Gutu. Rupiya was in the same team at the COSAFA youth tournament with Highlanders prodigy Prince Dube, Bantu Rovers skipper Bukhosi Sibanda and Yadah teenage sensation Leeroy Mavunga. Most of the times, Premiership coaches do not have faith in the Under-20 players they register as per PSL requirements, but I am happy these boys are commanding places at their clubs. This shows that we must also not ignore junior development, said Mpofu.Bulawayo City could have been returning to the National Sports Stadium on Sunday, but their match against CAPS United has been postponed because the Harare giants have a CAF Champions League commitment against Zamalek of Egypt.But Dynamos will host Bantu Rovers under floodlights at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. The Glamour Boys have been enjoying a good run of late.The DeMbare management have set kick-off at 7:30pm. Dynamos have never lost to Bantu Rovers in a league match since 2009. Then on Saturday an interesting duel is on the cards as table-toppers Ngezi Platinum host their football cousins FC Platinum at Baobab.Rahman Gumbo s in-form Chicken Inn will face a resurgent Chapungu at Ascot while Black Rhinos travel to ZPC Kariba.FixturesTomorrow: Dynamos v Bantu Rovers (NSS, 1930hrs)Saturday: Tsholotsho v Triangle (Dulivhadzimo), Ngezi Platinum v FC Platinum (Baobab), Chapungu v Chicken Inn (Ascot), ZPC Kariba v Black Rhinos (Nyamhunga), Harare City v Hwange (Morris Depot)Sunday: Highlanders v Yadah (Barbourfields), Shabanie Mine v How Mine (Maglas), Bulawayo City v CAPS United (Postponed).