Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter AFTER finishing the season on a high leading Golden Arrows to a top eight finish, Zimbabwe international Knox Mutizwa has set himself a benchmark to transform his form to the COSAFA tournament in South Africa. The former Highlanders man had a late flourish after being loaned out to Arrows by champions Bidvest Wits and scoring five goals which were the club s second highest after Lerato Lamola s seven.In his six months at the Durban Club, Mutizwa also had the second best assists record with four to his name and two behind Nduduzo Sibiya. I feel motivated, I can see that I am doing well. I am sure the coaches here in Zimbabwe have also seen that and that is why they have called. I am happy for myself. It s a big opportunity for us. I am grateful for this chance they have given us as new players. I think we are going to do our best and try to go as far as we can in that tournament. This is the chance. Its s a new beginning for us. If we perform well there is a chance that we could be called for the AFCON squad. I think I had a great season at Golden Arrows. I managed to score goals for my team, important ones for that matter and we managed to finish in the top eight. But for now I m concentrating on this COSAFA Cup. I know some people are taking this tournament lowly but some of us are taking it seriously, said Mutizwa.He is one of the four strikers that Chidzambwa will be banking on for goals with the others being youthful Highlanders sensation Prince Dube, Blessing Majarira of Division One side Herentals and Michelle Katsvairo of Kaizer Chiefs.Mutizwa s performance at Golden Arrows has left coach Clinton Larsen keen for an extension of his stay at the club when the new season begins.The forward is due back at Wits in July after the expiry of the six-month loan agreement at Arrows. Listen, he has made a positive impact in a very short space of time and I m very happy for him. You know he didn t get the opportunity at Wits but we gave him that opportunity. I think a lot of people will talk about him now. I m very pleased for him but yeah we got competition with him and Lerato Lamola, Sibusiso Sibeko at the top and that kept them on their toes. With the impact that he has made, of course we would like to keep him but it s not up to us. He s got to go back to his club and spend pre-season and we ll wait and see what Wits plans are for him, Larsen told the South African media recently.Zimbabwe COSAFA squadGoalkeepers: George Chigova (Polokwane City), Takabva Mawaya (Ngezi Platinum Stars), Talbert Mutombeni (Chapungu)Defenders: Eric Chipeta (Ajax Cape Town), Ocean Mushure (Dynamos), Honest Moyo (Highlanders), Bruce Homora (Black Rhinos), Jimmy Tigere (Harare City), Jameson Mukombwe (Black Rhinos)Midfielders: Liberty Chakoroma (Ngezi Platinum Stars), Gerald Takwara (FC Platinum) Ovidy Karuru (AmaZulu), Leeroy Mavunga (Yadah Stars), Talent Chawapiwa (FC Platinum), Innocent Mucheneka (Chicken Inn), Raphael Manuvire (ZPC Kariba).Forwards: Knox Mutizwa (Lamontville Golden Arrows), Prince Dube (Highlanders), Blessing Majarira (Herentals), Michelle Katsvairo (Kaizer Chiefs).