Dr ZivhuHerald Reporter Chivi Rural District Council has urged Government to urgently come up with a development master plan for the recently completed Tokwe-Mukosi Dam to enable people to start benefiting from the massive water body. Zimbabwe s largest inland dam was commissioned by President Mugabe last month, raising hopes for people throughout the country who are eager to start money generating projects at the dam.Chivi Rural District Council chairperson Dr Killer Zivhu said in an interview yesterday that no one had yet benefited from the dam because the development plan was not yet in place.He dismissed rumours being circulated by some mischievous individuals that the land around the dam had already been taken up. Dr Zivhu said as far as the council was concerned, no one had been allocated land at the dam. There is nothing like that, that sort of thing has not happened, he said. It s only speculation and rumours being spread by people after they probably smoke something like marijuana and cocaine. We will be advised by Government on the way forward as council on what role we will play in the developmental projects around the dam. At the moment, no one has an inch of land at the dam. Dr Zivhu said there was no way land could be allocated at the dam without a development master plan in place. We are saying Tokwe-Mukosi Dam was done and finished and we want to thank President Mugabe for his good efforts, he said. It is a reality among people from all parts of the country that they expect to benefit from the dam, especially those who come from Chivi where it is located. But to say all the land has already been taken up is not true. As council, we do not even know the demarcations. The Government ministries responsible, especially that for water and for land and agriculture must define things for us at the dam. Dr Zivhu said in whatever projects to be undertaken at the dam, villagers who were displaced by floods caused by the dam in recent years should be considered.He said Government could give an opportunity for the villagers to partner with investors in various money-generating activities at the dam. We all know this is a national project and everyone wants to benefit, but we also urge people from Chivi to visit the dam and assess the available opportunities so that when the development master plan is available, they will already have an idea of what they can do, said Dr Zivhu. A number of projects are envisaged around Tokwe-Mukosi, which include the opening up of land for irrigation.Tourism is also set to benefit immensely, as the dam will provide an opportunity to business that can attract tourists. Fishing will also play a major role as one of the money-generating ventures at the dam.