Morgan TsvangiraiFrom Tawanda Mangoma in CHIREDZI The MDC-T has continued with its intimidation of voters ahead of the 2018 harmonised elections by threatening to unleash violence on them in the event that they do not vote for party leader Mr Morgan Tsvangirai in favour of President Mugabe. Mr Tsvangirai has lost to President Mugabe in every national election he has contested since the formation of the British-funded party in 1999.Addressing a rally dubbed Bereka Mwana Strategy at Chitsanga Hall in Chiredzi over the weekend, MDC-T national youth secretary-general Mr Lovemore Chinoputsa said the MDC-T would not tolerate any other winner, who is not Mr Tsvangirai.Mr Tsvangirai made similar attacks on voters twice last month, first at a National Electoral Reform Agenda meeting in Chinhoyi and then at the Workers Day celebrations organised by the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions in Harare.In Chiredzi, Mr Chinoputsa said the party wanted brave and violent youths to take on zanu-pf and ordered the pigeon-livered ones to leave the MDC-T. If you are afraid to die, do not come again to any MDC rally, he said. We will not allow you to be part of us if you cannot defend your vote. We were robbed in 2008. We then failed to protect the people s votes by allowing (President) Mugabe to rule. But in 2018, as soon as results are announced and Tsvangirai is not declared the winner, we will make this country ungovernable. Social media activist and Tajamuka spokesperson Mr Promise Mkwananzi said they would help the MDC-T in visiting the people with violence if Mr Tsvangirai lost. 2018 is our year of change and I want to assure you that, he said. (President) Mugabe, if you steal this coming election, I want to tell you that we will stone you with bricks. Addressing the same gathering, MDC-T House of Assembly Member for Beitbridge East Mr Morgan Ncube confirmed that the MDC-T was a party of violence. They (zanu-pf) must know how we behave, he said. We burnt the border post in Beitbridge and they know it. If we say no we really mean it. That was a very clear and strong message to zanu-pf that if they steal our victory next year we will definitely do what we know best, violence. zanu-pf secretary for administration in Masvingo Province Cde Ailess Baloyi said the ruling party would not condone acts of violence.Cde Baloyi said President Mugabe would cleanly win the presidential election next year, while in Masvingo the ruling party will retain all the 26 seats. As zanu-pf, we are not amused by the violent comments being made by the MDC-T, he said. Our message to them is that our party will retain all the 26 constituencies in Masvingo and not even their barking will stop us from winning elections. The MDC-T has in the past unsuccessfully tried to remove President Mugabe from power through demonstrations that often turned violent. The most affected by the violence were often women whose market stalls were burnt, children coming from schools, innocent bystanders and shop owners, who had their wares looted.