Results from Command Agriculture have shown that it is possible to turn Zimbabwe into an economic powerhouseVictoria Ruzvidzo In Focus The World Bank has revised the country s economic growth projection to 2,5 percent from 3,8 percent earlier in the year while the African Development Bank was quite conservative recently as it said the economy would manage a 1,3 percent rise. The above scenario means that the first half of this year may have performed below expectations or that there are things happening right now which will have a debilitating effect on overall growth come year end.These assumptions are quite normal given the fact that there are many variables at play which determine the overall outcome at year end.These include the performance of agriculture &#8211; the anchor sector, tourism, manufacturing, the financial services sector and other sectors of the economy.The resolve with which the country is seeking to overcome both local and exogenous factors that could affect the economy will also determine how the year ends and how much progress or otherwise we would have made.The World Bank and the AfDB are well within their purview in projecting growth figures for Zimbabwe and any other country in their sphere of influence, so we shall not query their figures or question how they arrived at them.There is quite a lot happening in the global space that has contributed to the downward revision. For instance, subdued demand for minerals and other products will naturally have a bearing on our economic performance.However, at this juncture it is critical to remind ourselves that the Gross Domestic Product is the sum total of all economic activities, hence it is within our means to determine the extent to which the economy will grow this year.We do not even have to frown at the World Bank for revising the figure downwards and we also don t have to attack the AfDB for being unAfrican or sabotaging a fellow African country because of its low projection. All we have to do is summon all energy and resources to ensure we achieve a decent growth rate.It is certainly not up to WB or AfDB or any institution for that matter to determine the results.A growth rate as high a 5 percent is still achievable this year but it all depends on whether we have similar aspirations for this economy, whether we have the same passion or drive and whether we are all building towards the vision or others are busy destroying where others are building.How much we are willing to sacrifice for a better tomorrow will certainly contribute towards the growth figure at the end of the year.We need not make any excuses or find intelligent and even well-argued reasons as to why this economy will not perform this year. All we need to do is set goals and be clear about what we want to achieve and go for it. All sectors should have realistic targets that are not limited by prophets of doom.However, it is critical that the country moves in to address any impediments to growth as highlighted by the WB and other institutions within or without Zimbabwe s borders.But I insist we must not lose sight of the fact that the Zimbabwe we want will come out of our individual and collective efforts and not necessarily out of some projects, whether positive or negative.It is about time that all stakeholders took ownership of the project called Zimbabwe. We are sure there is space for everyone to make their bit to ensure Zimbabwe becomes the dominant force it is supposed to be.We have been in unfamiliar territories for too long it s about time we became the regional powerhouse that we have always been.Zimbabwe has the wherewithal to achieve greatness. The fact that everyone, even as far as an island called Vanuatu, has taken an interest in this small Southern African country means that we are designed for greatness. We are a global brand that has been somewhat dormant but the phoenix must rise again.Results from Command Agriculture have shown that it is possible. So much can be achieved in a few months. So it s back to work for all of us for the remaining six months of the year.Who knows, within a few months the WB will be forced to revise its figure upwards again. But this will not come easy.Let s have fewer talkshops and more action. Ministries should whip parastatals under them into action. Industry should ensure all machines are humming in factories as they produce for the donestic and export markets.The financial sector should be obsessed, not with making money too expensive but should formulate strategies and packages that will facilitate increased business activity.Consumers should re-establish the taste for local products so that we save the dollars that would otherwise be used to import water, chickens and other trinkets.Universities should lead in research on how we can do things better. Everyone has a role to play and any dereliction of duty is self-destructive.A few days ago I met a foreigner from one regional country who said he turned down a job promotion to come to Zimbabwe a few years ago because he feared Zimbabwe was so backward that it didn t have an airport but an airstrip at best. He said his wife threatened divorce him if they were to come and work in Zimbabwe because it was akin to living in hell.It only took their coming here to discover that things were not as bad as they were portrayed.Imagine how many people believe we live in forests and that a bar of soap is foreign language.This means Zimbabwe needs to embark on an aggressive public relations campaign. We need investors, we need tourists but they need correct information so they can make correct decisions about this country.Peter Drucker once said the best way is to invent the future you want. So let s do that as Zimbabweans. Let s determine the future we want and work at it. It can be done.Let s give this country our all.In God I Trust.