Tafadzwa Zimoyo T V Column Happy Tuesday. It s good to be back after a long time. Yes, some have been wondering where the couch potato guy is. A lot has been happening in the film and television industry as I also have been working on some local television project. I am much of a reality show person rather than movie or film acting, so brace up, soon for some thrilling and exciting news.I had to catch up on both the local channel and DSTV of course and oops, just like Britney Spears, I did it again. My last issue was on Professionalism, diversity needed in local film industry .For a start, I have noticed that local soaps are dominating our television screens, tackling what is happening in the society. We have Outrage , Muzita Rababa and Wenera among others who are fighting for the best in viewership.I have also noticed the quality 0f production is improving and thumbs up to you producers. However, I still have a problem when you think that if you have a handsome friend or beautiful sister or I can say, girlfriend, he or she can act.Yes looks are deceiving but try to give us the value for our money (licence). Avoid nepotism in your productions.I hear you are still fighting for shooting rights on location, but I had a chat with one authority about that issue and they said the problem with film-makers is they just pitch up in your office demanding to shoot tomorrow at some restricted location.Zimbabwe is a free country but don t take it for granted you still ought to be professional. Plan your things well and submit on time, then you will have access to shoot where you want.Even in New York, Nigeria or South Africa, you don t just set your camera and shoot without permission, so next time I hear you complain about this then I would know that your ignorance is putting snow on your sunshine.To music lovers, I still salute directors for Coke on The Beat for keeping up with the standards.The setting is improving by day and alas the music videos, if you walk in to someone watching, you would think its Trace or MTV. Be guided it is not my only valuation but many are in my closet too.Your presenters are awesome, you truly can taste the feeling. Thank you director for that and keep up the good work. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to my friend, sister and colleague from Daily News, entertainment reporter Sharon Muguwu who passed on last week after battling leukemia.She was a vivid fan of television for ZBC TV and DSTV and we would attend workshops, seminars and launch programs that have to do with television and film.She would call me and say, Hausikuenda here kwaLiz kuDSTV? Rest in peace Sharon and we will continue switching on the television for you.On to DSTV, there is exciting news, from Africa s most watched channel as DStv Viewers are to experience the drama of Albert Square which premiered on BBC Brit, last night.Liz Dziva, publicity and public relations manager of MultiChoice Zimbabwe said BBC Brit will still host hugely popular series such as Top Gear and The Graham Norton Show , but will now also be the exclusive home to popular entertainment programming such as Strictly Come Dancing and new drama and comedy series including Michael McIntyre s Big Show . We are excited to introduce the scandals, romances and family dramas of EastEnders to DStv viewers on BBC Brit. Set in London s East End, multi award-winning EastEnders premi red on BBC Brit from Monday June 19 at 6.30pm, she said.Viewers can look forward to the return of familiar face Robbie Jackson (Dean Gaffney) and introduction of new characters including bad lad Woody Woodward (Lee Ryan), business woman Fi Browning (Lisa Faulkner) and brand new family The Taylors , who are set to cause big trouble on The Square.Enjoy your viewing and the coldest days of the year. Just have a cup of coffee and the remote with you, your day is fun packed.