DREAM DEBUT. . .Tom Curran celebrates capturing a wicket for England in their Twenty20 International against South Africa at Taunton yesterday &#8211; Cricinfo.Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Cricket will receive $94 million during the 2016 to 2023 cycle, the ICC Board confirmed on Thursday.South Africa, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh, New Zealand and West Indies receive $128m each while India will receive $405m during the same period. England will get the second largest share of $139m.Last month, Zimbabwe Cricket chairman Tavengwa Mukuhlani welcomed the resolution by ICC which will see the country getting an improved financial package of $94 million under the global organisation s new revenue-sharing model. This is a welcome development. We really need funding for our programmes. I am sure it s not only a boost for Zimbabwe but for other Full Members as well. Under the previous system, we should have been getting $75 million for the eight years but it has increased significantly. I am sure it will go a long way. Money can never be enough with all the obligations that we face, but it will certainly change the outlook, said Mukuhlani.Zimbabwe Cricket also revealed they have put in a bid to host the 2018 ICC World Cup Qualifier, a cricket tournament meant to decide the final qualification for the 2019 World Cup in England.The top two teams at the qualifier event will join the eight teams, who will have already qualified for the World Cup through their ranking in the ICC ODI Championship.The 2018 ICC World Cup Qualifier was originally scheduled to take place in Bangladesh, but this is likely to change as Bangladesh appear certain to qualify automatically for the prestigious 50-over tournament.Zimbabwe will contest for the rights against Scotland and Ireland, who have submitted a joint bid. We stand a good chance to host this tournament because we are a Full Member and we have better facilities. Remember we have hosted World Cup matches before and I m sure we have the infrastructure and facilities that are quite capable of having a flawless event. It will be a massive boost to the cricket in Zimbabwe if we are to win the bid. We also have an advantage that we have the best weather in comparison to the other nations that have lined up for this bid, said Mukuhlani.Meanwhile, Tom Curran, the 22-year-old son of former Zimbabwe cricketer Kevin Curran, made his Twenty20 International debut for England against South Africa yesterday.Tom picked 3-33 on his debut for England. Tom is the son of former Zimbabwe all-rounder Kevin Curran who represented the country at the 1983 and 1987 ICC Cricket World Cup.Kevin died on October 10, 2012, at a time he was the head of the Zimbabwe Cricket Academy.He also coached the Zimbabwe national team between August 2005 and September 2007.