Innocent Choga Fitness Happiness is regarded as a key factor in the quest for fitness. Research has indicated that weight loss and weight gain programmes are most effective when participants are generally happy.The reasons why we take up exercise will determine whether we stick to it or not. We may not communicate the reasons to other people, but we know the reasons deep down within ourselves .If we have no reason at all then we are just floating, depending on the blowing winds to stay afloat and we will come to a halt whenever and wherever the winds stop.A lady who was very heavy two years ago impressively exercised herself to a lower weight, losing more than twenty kilograms within this period. Initially she worked out with a relative.They started by walking, got into running, did all sorts of exercises and engaged in a sporting discipline .The relative relocated and left the scene. She continued exercising by herself for some time but she has relatively fallen upon hard times so she has stopped exercising and the weight is coming back; she has gained back eight kilogrammes .Her main worry is that she will lose her friends as she is scared she will be excluded from other fun activities because of her weight .She also dreads to be called by the old derogatory nick names the friends used to call her before.In my opinion, exercising to gain approval of, or fit in with friends is not a good reason to take up exercise .The success rate based on such a reason is much lower than that of self motivation. Friendship should be unconditional.People are people, and good friends should value the inner person and not the outer person. They should be worried about their friend s health and assist her to maintain good weight like the relative did in this case.They should also be concerned about her mental well being and try to make her happy through inclusion than to torment her by name calling and exclusion.If you decide to base your happiness on weight loss you may suffer from the hedonic treadmill effect, which roughly translated implies that we are never satisfied .It states that the human being has a way of getting used to the new state of things.For example, when one attains the weight that they required initially, the level of happiness increases only for a while before they return back to the starting point and one wishes to lose more .The same thing happens with weight gain. You are running on the spot but you are not actually moving .This can lead to excessive weight loss and eating disorders. You will also be disappointed if these friends appear not to notice any changes, so it is better to do it for yourself.It is most important to be wary of falling into depression because of the change of lifestyle and the regaining of weight compounded by the fear of laughter and exclusion.Depression is said to be an illness and not a state of mind .The symptoms are said to be the feeling of sadness, anxiety and irritability. One also feels worthless or hopeless and is likely to lose interest in ordinary pleasurable activities .Some of the symptoms are fatigue, sleep disturbances and a change in appetite resulting in significant weight gain or loss. It becomes difficult to concentrate and make decisions. Crying and thoughts of suicide or dying can also be experienced.The number of people living with depression worldwide is said to have increased by more than 18 percent between 2005 and 2015, with over 300 million people being affected. Depression is also said to be the largest cause of disability.So the first thing to do is to try to be happy yourself despite the circumstances. This is easier said than done, but it is important because everything else will flow from your happiness.In order to experience and enjoy the fitness flow do not be too concerned about weight loss. Although we encourage people to make specific goals, the most important thing is to aim for the greater well being.You should be using exercise to ward off depression instead of having depression causing you to stay away from exercise. Psychologists recommend natural exercise as treatment .They regard it to be better than medication because when the medication wears off, depression will come back.Join exercise groups, volunteer to exercise with children, individuals with challenges or disabilities to keep yourself occupied and feel useful, that is if there are any such groups in your area.Don t be too hard on yourself; do not be too self-critical.Even if you are overweight once you start exercising you will experience euphoria, the sense of being well .So exercise for good health, to stimulate the mind and increase creativity capacity and be happier. Email:[email&#160;protected] Innocent Choga is a six time National Bodybuilding Champion with international experience. He is studying for a science degree in Physical Education and Sport