Uncle Sam and his allies still hold Africans in low esteemIsdore Guvamombe Reflections Back in the village, in the land of milk, honey and dust or Guruve, sometimes you have to play the role of a fool, to fool the fools, who think they are fooling you. In the end, the prank allows the fool to bare it all. Suffice to say, village elders with cotton tuft hair say, beware of a naked person who offers you clothes. For years now the United States of America and its allies in Western Europe think liberation movements in Africa are fools. But the clever liberation movements have indeed played the fool by pretending to subscribe to eurocentric democracy, good governance and accountability yet the bigger picture is that the liberation movements now know all the neo-colonial shenanigans and have hardened their positions.After learning from the demise of Kenneth Kaunda s United National Independence Party (UNIP) in Zambia liberation movements such as Zanu-PF of Zimbabwe, Chama Cha Mapinduzi of Tanzania, Revolutionary Front for the Liberation of Mozambique, Movement for the Liberation of the People of Angola, South West People s Organisation of Namibia and the African National Congress of South Africa, among others, have learnt how to counter the US and its allies.Every sane African leader knows that the US is the most lethal killer of innocent people in a multifarious array of wars outside its soil and also the most cunning sponsor of regime change in Africa, yet it wants to portray itself as the clever and clean one: as the ultimate democracy and believer in human rights.Who does not know that the liberation movements brought sanity, respect and dignity to Africans who for years were regarded as second class citizens of the world, with no human rights?Even today, the US and its allies still hold Africans in low esteem and think Africans are fools who need to be taught how to run their own countries. We are not fools but at times we play the fool to fool the USA and its allies.Today one of the biggest problems for Africa is regime change efforts sponsored by Western countries. For countries like the US or UK, Africa remains a continent that will never be equal to them. They must influence who rules Africa, because the Africans themselves are unable to choose a suitable leader.That s why they never give credit to liberation movements that really liberated Africa from colonial bondage and made Africa great. There have been concerted efforts to portray liberation movements as evil, undemocratic and corrupt, while sponsoring opposition parties that they want perceived as democratic forces.That is why all countries where liberation movements are still in power should work together and unite. It is very important to stop countries like the US thinking that they are unique and great. But the problem is already here. A lot of opposition parties in Africa are operating with sponsorship of Western countries.Some of them get financing directly and some through different organisations like NGOs and so on. Imagine what can happen if the biggest economy in Southern Africa, South Africa, changes its foreign policy towards the West because the Democratic Alliance (for example) comes into power? South Africa automatically becomes another rough state because it won t have an opportunity to control its domestic and foreign policy.The people of SA don t need it. It is going to be a disaster for the country and for the whole region!Let us focus on the recent visit of Carol 0 Connell, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs to Zimbabwe and South Africa. Obviously it is another round of instructing local NGOs and opposition movements before elections in our countries.African leaders in the region should unite and block all attempts by the West to influence their domestic and foreign policies. They should choose the right friends to cooperate with, countries who will respect their sovereignty.South Africa is under pressure after it became clear that the land reform is inevitably coming. The black majority is demanding what it deserves. Zimbabwe will be under pressure again as the 2018 election beckons.Liberation movements should huddle together and fight in one corner. There is a strategic project to wipe out all liberation movements. The time to unite is now.&nbsp;