Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis There are various yokes in life, and one of the big ones is discouragement. It is a weapon the devil uses. Many families, plans, communities, nations, ministries have suffered and bowed to this yoke of bondage! I will share with you today, on how you can stay above discouragement.Yes it s possible! I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me Philippians 4:13. Christ means the anointed one. What made him unique is the anointing. There were many other Jesus but this one was Jesus Christ of Nazareth.The Anointed one!Oh hallelujah your key to stay above discouragement is the anointing!You need to understand that God has anointed you.You are anointed to be victorious in every area of your life, a good marriage, a good career, good children, good company, good projects and of course a good nation. Oh yes you are anointed for it.Let me surprise you with this one, you are also anointed to be prosperous. Everything Joseph touched flourished. Genesis 39:3 But pastor how can you say that when I don t even have a cent? You have not because you have no faith. It means you are still living the way you were living when you were not yet a Christian.No, understand this you are born again. You live by the anointing. You live by faith. As long as you walk by faith discouragement can t lay its hand on you. But the moment you begin to look at the economy, the pay-slip, the bills at home, the scan from the surgeon, and all the negative reports in front of you, discouragement pounces on you. Before long you are stressed, depressed, oppressed and lose all focus in life.That s when spouses begin to cheat, teenagers go for drugs, good men prefer alcoholism and spending what they have at the pub than at home where the family is suffering, parents shout at children for nothing and everything begins to go wrong. It all started with one thing discouragement.With this weapon the devil has made you stoop so down and been sinking you year after year.Instead of coming up you have been going down.You have become so discouraged such that you are not seeing where we are going.Discouragement is like mist or fog, it limits visibility; it drains energy, and binds progress.Little can be done when it s there.Airplanes, cars and all slow down or get off travelling when there is a strong mist or fog.Discouragement is just when you want to give up. It s when any minute you can throw in the towel.Any minute you can walk away from that marriage, any minute you can leave the company, leave the church, leave your duties and worst of all leave who you are.This is your article.It s not over. The anointing breaks the yoke of bondage! Isaiah 10:27.Oh hallelujah!I know I am talking to somebody right now.I am talking to you. You are discouraged because nothing is happening. But you see the car doesn t move when you don t do anything. Ask any driver. Things are not moving because you are not moving.You are not moving because you think you are going nowhere. You can t see the light. By so doing you weaken the anointing in you. Friend, we walk by faith and not by sight. Don t let negativity hold you from giving your best in that relationship or project.Give your best. Ignore the negativity.We reap what we sow.If the harvest seems to be delaying or never coming it will surely come, keep sowing good seeds wherever you go and in whatever you do.We overcome evil by good not evil by evil, no.But bishop what you are saying is not easy. That s why in walking by faith, we walk by one thing trust in the Lord.He knows the way! He knows the life of joy, peace, winning, and staying above discouragements!Many spoke badly to him on the cross, yet he stayed focused and prayed for the very people abusing him; Father, forgive them for they know not what they are doing.It s not easy to move in the anointing if everything around us is negative.We have to rise up a little bit and go higher.You can t move in God s anointing and victory when your heart is angry. When hearts are angry, faith is dormant.Eagerness, excitement, enthusiasm, passion, and above all hope gets trapped with the long, painful claws of discouragement. I command you to rise up, shake yourself and trample that creature under your feet.You are anointed. You can do it. You are a champion. You were born for this.Next week I will tell you a story of how at one time in our walk of faith with my wife, we were face to face with this thing and how we stayed victorious and firm in God s Word.For with God all things are possible Mark 10:27.