Swagga T Cool Lifestyle Writer Choosing a career is not a serious affair until one gets to Ordinary or Advanced Level. Once you are done with school it is necessary to choose a definite career and decide on a career goal. Unfortunately, not many students are able to discover their potentials and interests at the stage and this is when pressure starts building.In this scenario, seeking the help of an experienced and qualified career counsellor becomes necessary.This is the case with Star Education Consultancy dubbed StarZim whose star has continued to shine so bright after more than 300 students have benefited as they were assisted in career paths.For those in the dark, StarZim is one of the leading educational consultancies in the country with over 60 MoU s with international and regional universities.Speaking at a career briefing held in Harare on Thursday, founder member and director of StarZim Prisca Madondo, said she was happy with how local students are embracing the educational facilities provided to them.She said career counselling is important at first before making any decisions along the paths. With an increase in the number of opportunities in the market, the importance of career counselling has also increased manifold. People have begun to realise the fact that not all can become engineers or doctors and started exploring other fields depending on their talent and interest in alternate domains.Approaching a career counsellor is essential when you are not sure about choosing a suitable career option, she said.She said parents should take time to discuss with their children before applying for universities. We have more than 600 students who approached us to date for career guidance and challenge is their parents will not know about it so it would then difficult helping them. This year only we have applied for some students in universities in countries such as the US, China, Mauritius, Zambia, Poland, Hong Kong, Russia, South America and Switzerland among others and we happy the students are so excited too, she said.Madondo said selecting a career option determines your course of life. While a good decision at the right point of time can make your life pleasant, a wrong one can ruin it. Remember that these decisions are irreversible. Our organisation helps in determining a student s true potential thus there are students who are clear as to what they want to become. On the other hand, there are others who are either confused or have no idea about their career preferences, she said.She added that they help in applying for a university of your choice globally at a fee depending on what the criteria and requirements are. We also help on the visa facilities and at the same time after completing your ordinary or advanced level, one needs to have a diploma or degree but the challenge is some don t even know how to go by. Again there is an issue of clear doubts which is despite having a clear idea of what they want to achieve in life, some students do not know the career path they need to follow to have the requisite academic qualification to join a particular course. Career counselling can help students clear these doubts by giving them a clear cut view of what they can expect from various educational courses, she said.Madondo added that as a career counsellor they also provides essential support and boosts the morale of a student by understanding the kind of requirements.She said students and parents should work with registered educational consultancy to avoid human trafficking and at the same time have proof of good results.