Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter SHABANIE Mine technical manager Taku Shariwa says his players should use the Zvishavane Derby on Sunday to show interim Warriors coach Norman Mapeza they deserve a place in the national team. The asbestos miners will host FC Platinum at Maglas in the biggest football match outside the country s largest two cities Harare and Bulawayo. Mapeza has spent part of the week preparing the Warriors for their AFCON qualifier against Liberia.He left Harare yesterday for his base in Zvishavane. It is going to be a privilege for my players to showcase their talents in the presence of the national team coach. Our goalkeeper has been brilliant, but it s unfortunate that he is playing for a poor team. We have Collins (Dhuwa) Tinashe (Chigede) and William (Mapfumo) who have been very inspirational, but it s a pity that they are not being noticed. It will be their best chance to showcase their skills on the day, said Shariwa.He said they were ready for battle. We are going to make it rain on Sunday and fans must remember that the last time we met it rained, said Shariwa. It s a derby, it can be fun and a lot of things will be said. It will be a battle for bragging rights for the fans, but it s imperative that we collect three points. We are playing a team that has never tasted defeat this season and we want them to feel what it means to lose a game on Sunday. It will be a good afternoon for all the soccer fans, but we appeal to fans to shun violence. We want the better team of the day to win. FC Platinum have an array of stars, but stars do not make a team. They have more resources, but we have the better motivation and that should help us. We will be playing at our own fortress where we have only lost once. We badly need a victory on Sunday. The two sides met this season in the Cephas Msipa Charity Cup and FC Platinum won the bragging rights after a 4-1 penalty shoot-out victory.In 2014, the derby charmed Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane who rated it as the best he had watched in recent years and said the Tswane derby between Sundowns and Supersport did not match the Zvishavane derby.&nbsp;Fixtures Tomorrow: Yadah Stars v Hwange (NSS 1pm), Harare City v Chicken Inn (NSS, 3pm), Bulawayo City v How Mine (Barbourfields), ZPC Kariba v Bantu Rovers (Nyamhunga), Tsholotsho v Dynamos (Dulivhadzimo)Sunday: Highlanders v Triangle United (Barbourfields), Ngezi Platinum v Chapungu (Baobab), Shabanie Mine v FC Platinum (Maglas), CAPS United v Black Rhinos (Postponed)