Rex TillersonTEHRAN. Iran has accused the United States of interfering in its domestic affairs after calls by the US Secretary of State to support elements that would ensure a peaceful transition in the Islamic Republic. Tehran also officially delivered a note of protest to the UN. Speaking last Wednesday before the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Rex Tillerson said Washington will support efforts of a regime change in Iran. Our policy towards Iran is to push back on this hegemony, contain their ability to develop obviously nuclear weapons, and to work toward support of those elements inside of Iran that would lead to a peaceful transition of that government. Those elements are there, certainly as we know, Tillerson said on June 14.In addition to voicing Washington s apparent support of a regime change, Tillerson also said the US could pursue sanctions on Iran s entire Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.Tillerson s remarks sparked an avalanche of criticism and condemnation from Iran. In the latest development, the Iranian Foreign Ministry summoned the Swiss charge d affaires to Tehran to protest Washington s policy. The Embassy of Switzerland represents American interests in the Islamic Republic after the US cut diplomatic relations with Iran in April 1980 in the wake of the 400-day US Embassy hostage crisis of 1979-1981. Following the interfering and meddling statements made by the US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson . . . the charge d affaires of the European country was summoned to express Iran s complaint about Tillerson s anti-Iran remarks in the country s House of Representatives, Iran s Foreign Ministry spokesperson said in a statement, Mehr News reported. Earlier on Monday, Iran s permanent envoy to the UN also delivered a letter of protest to UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and the UN Security Council, accusing Washington of devising a brazen interventionist plan. Tillerson s remarks is a brazen interventionist plan that runs counter to every norm and principle of international law, as well as the letter and spirit of UN Charter, and constitutes an unacceptable behaviour in international relations, Iran s UN Ambassador Gholamali Khoshroo said in the letter.Tehran further accused the US of violating the 1981 Algiers Accord, a set of agreements signed by Washington and Tehran to end the Iran hostage crisis. The United States pledges that it is and from now on will be the policy of the United States not to intervene, directly or indirectly, politically or militarily, in Iran s internal affairs, Point I of the Accord reads. RT.