MOMENT TO SAVOUR . . . Zambia s Emmanuel Banda (centre) is joined by his teammates in celebrating his goal yesterday. (Picture by fifa.com)SUWON. African champions Zambia survived a heart-stopping encounter to see off Germany 4-3 after extra-time to progress to their first FIFA Under-20 World Cup quarter-final in South Korea yesterday. Both sides failed to find their groove in the opening period during a disjointed first half, but there was one moment of sublime brilliance. Philipp Ochs arced a free-kick from wide on the right flank, whipped with his left foot that cannoned in off the underside of the bar to open the scoring.It seemed to be the injection of energy Zambia needed. Five minutes were on the clock when they levelled after the break. Enock Mwepu went for the spectacular following a deflected cross, but Emmanuel Banda was on hand to volley in following Mwepu s miscued bicycle kick. Zambia then struck again as Fashion Sakala bagged his third of Korea Republic 2017, beating Sven Brodersen from wide on the right of the area.With nothing to lose, Germany committed more and more forward, losing the shape that kept the African champions quiet in the first half, and ultimately led to Enock Mwepu converting on the break. But Suat Serdar s delightful near-post flick kept the game alive before, with the last kick of the 90 minutes, substitute Jonas Arweiler slammed home to send the European side into delirium.A cagey start to extra-time saw Daka force a good save from Brodersen before Shemmy Mayembe put Young Chipolopolo back in front, this time holding out just, with Serdar fluffing a fantastic chance for that first ever ticket to the last eight.In other matches a brace scored by Ademola Lookman in a 2-1 victory over Costa Rica also sent England into the quarter-finals.The forward saved his first goals at Korea Republic 2017 for a crucial time, getting the Young Lions to the quarter-finals at the Under-20 World Cup for the first time since 1993. An Everton connection featured in both goals. Defender Jonjoe Kenny s low cross found Lookman, who controlled the ball before firing past Erick Pineda for England s first.About midway through the second half, Lookman doubled his tally when he calmly slotted home from close range after neatly navigating his way past two defenders inside the box, following a cross from Dominic Calvert-Lewin. It was a nervy finish for Paul Simpson s side as Randall Leal scored in the 89th minute after Freddie Woodman saved his initial penalty.England will face the winner of Mexico-Senegal in the quarter-finals on June 5. Uruguay edged their way into the last eight after a slender 1-0 win over Saudi Arabia in Suwon courtesy of a Nicolas de la Cruz penalty.Yet to concede a goal, expectations would have it that, should Uruguay go ahead, then Saudi Arabia would struggle to regain parity. But the South Americans have struggled to score themselves, averaging just a goal a game.Even so, they looked keen to give themselves the comfort of a goal buffer right from the off as chance after chance came in the opening minutes. Joaquin Ardaiz and Nicolas Schiappacasse were both guilty of spurning their fair share. That profligacy almost came back to bite them on the breakHaving shown fleeting signs of threatening, Ayman Alkhulaif fired a fierce effort inches wide to send the Uruguayans into half-time knowing they had dodged a bullet.It took a stroke of luck to finally set the South American champions going. A handball in the box saw captain De La Cruz get the chance to put them in front from the penalty spot and he made no mistake, thundering his effort home.The Asian side had no response, crashing out at the same stage as their last appearance at Colombia 2011. fifa.com