Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter Harare City . . . . . . . . . . . . (1)2 Triangle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 HARARE City are beginning to flex their muscles in the Castle Lager Premiership as new coach Philani Beefy Ncube waves his magic. The Sunshine Boys beat Triangle at the National Sports Stadium yesterday for their fourth point in two games. Ncube has now picked seven points from his five games. The hosts were handed an opener by Triangle defender Guthrie Zhokinyu who headed into his nets just before the break.Harare City forward William Manondo s header in the 64th minute provided breathing space for the hosts.Zhokinyu, who was on target on Wednesday in the 3-0 victory against Shabanie at Gibbo, was the fall guy yesterday when he beat his own keeper Chris Mverechena for his second own goal of the season.On his last visit to the capital he also scored an own goal by heading past his goalkeeper Ronald Mudimu in the 0-3 thrashing at the hands of Yadah. As a coach you will never be satisfied. It is still work in progress considering the way we missed chances, said Ncube. There was an improvement in our strike force comparing to the FC Platinum match. The mobility was good today but unfortunately we didn t turn that into more goals. Triangle continued with their inconsistent run and coach Taurai Mangwiro poured out his frustrations yesterday after losing against his old team.Ralph Kawondera and Russell Madamombe missed chances in the first half. The performance itself wasn t dismal but carelessness in the way we defended. Those are things that can be worked on, communication between defenders and the goalkeeper, said Mangwiro. We had greatly improved in the way we defend set pieces in our previous game. We conceded in similar fashion to the game against Yadah. We made a mistake with the first goal then went to sleep on the second goal. When the opponent punished us, we failed to do so in return. We had two good chances in the first half. We have put ourselves in a difficult position, the only difference is we have started to win at home but we are not in a good position. Teams Harare City: M. Nyamupangedengu, H. Chapusha, J. Tigere, R. Uchena, P. Mpelele, E. Madhananga, T. Samanja, M. Vengesayi, T. Tumba (T. Chimwemwe 58th min), J, Chipangura (G. Kufandada 62nd min), W. Manondo.Triangle: C. Mverechena, B. Chimwamuchere, G. Zhokinyi, K. Chigwida, T. Huwa, D. Dzvinyu, R. Kawondera, R. Madamombe, C. Denias, B. Short (N. Lameck 47th min), S. Makoni, R. Kawondera (B. Maglas 54th min).