And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother( Genesis 35:1). There are reasons why people cannot remain on top in life. There are promises that God gave to us in the book of Deuteronomy if we are to obey. It is a promise and a blessing for you to be above and not to be beneath. And the LORD shall make thee the head, and not the tail; and thou shalt be above only, and thou shalt not be beneath; if that thou hearken unto the commandments of the LORD thy God, which I command thee this day, to observe and to do them. (Deuteronomy 28:13).There is a formula for staying on top every time, there are steps that can be taken. Being the head means being on the forefront and making decisions.You cannot be the head and yet somebody has to decide how much you get at the end of the month. If that decision is not in your head it means you are not the head. If your company has to decide how much you get at the end of the month it means you are not doing the thinking. It means that whatever you are going to get in life is not decided by you but by other people. When God said that you shall be the head, it means being in a position to make decisions as to what should be happening in your life. You set the pace and decide what you would want to see tomorrow.There is headship anointing resting upon your life, you are born a leader. You are designed by God to be on the forefront. Being the head means you have to be the first person to arrive before the rest can also arrive. It is a blessing that God has offered to us and whether we receive it is decided by our obedience to His word.In simple terms, why people cannot remain on top is because they do not know how to stay there. They do not know what to do to secure their positions on top. Some of the people got there by chance, some they inherited something that they never worked for so they do not know how to keep it and maintain it.Especially if it is a position that you have inherited, positions can be inherited in certain circles like in chieftainships. A person who did not work for the position but was just born for it does not have a formula on how to get there because he was just born that way.The highest level that you can attain in life is the presence of God which is Bethel. If you say that you are on top we have to look at your level in the spirit. Do you understand spiritual matters because that is the highest level you can attain? Bethel was a place that was visited by Jacob and it was formerly called Luz. Jacob after he woke up named the place Bethel which means the House of God. The blessing upon Jacob s life helped him to locate the place where God was localised. When the blessing of God comes upon your life, it helps you to identify where God is.The number one blessing upon Jacob s life was to identify a place where God was concentrated. He was led by the blessing of God to a place, he was not aware of the place but somehow he felt like sleeping there. He then got a revelation in that place, what happened to him there was not a dream. He only visited a place where there was that activity already and he saw it. The place was already the house of God before he arrived. The blessing upon his life took him to that place where he would have an experience.There are things that qualify you to remain in Bethel for the rest of your life. If people are in places and they lack revelations of the place they are likely to leave the place. Jacob is a man who discovered an opening of the heavens but what is shocking is how he packed his bags soon after the revelation and left the place. Most people have attained certain levels in life whether financially or spiritually but they are no longer there, they left such places.The reason why people cannot sustain such a lifestyle is because they do not know how to sustain it. The anointing of God can work upon your life and it can keep on improving if you learn how to keep it. There are formulas that are teachable and you can be taught on how to harness the presence of God and to keep it.The presence of God, if it is kept long enough, will produce amazing results. You will not struggle to get a single thing achieved, once you get hold of the presence of God you do not have to let it go. There are certain things that make people lose the presence of God. How can Jacob see what other people cannot see and the next thing he does is to leave the place?In the Book of Genesis 31:13 God visited Jacob in Laban s house and spoke to him saying, I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, and where thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from this land, and return unto the land of thy kindred. Jacob was in Padanaram and yet he was hearing the God of Bethel. The fact that you are hearing Him there does not mean He is the God of that place.You can be in a place where you can hear the voice of God but it is not a confirmation of the presence of God because God can speak in a place where He is not. The fact that you can hear God in a wrong place does not make the place right. You can be poor and still hear the voice of God but that does not make poverty a good state for you.He remains the God of prosperity and yet He can still visit you in your condition and speak to you inviting you to a higher level of life. The God of Bethel can visit you in your place where He does not belong and speak to you introducing Himself as the God of a level you have left. Hearing His voice in certain places is a temptation to most people because they would rather stay there thinking He is a God of that place.Feedback: https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwahttps://twitter.com/prmakandiwahttps://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwa/Helpline: +263 4 339 341[email&#160;protected] mailto:[email&#160;protected]&nbsp;