(file pic) When Elton Mangoma was beaten up, Tsvangirai s supporters said he had merely been scratched and was seeking attention September 2001: MDC lawmakers Priscilla Misihairabwi-Mushonga, Gabriel Chaibva, Edwin Mushoriwa and Janah Ncube assaulted while attending a provincial executive meeting in Dzivaresekwa. September 2004: MDC youths try to kill party director of security, Peter Guhu at Harvest House. September 2004: Bulilima MP Moses Mzila Ndlovu assaulted. May 2005: Priscilla Misihairabwi-Mushonga assaulted at Harvest House. July 2006: Trudy Stevenson, Linos Mushonga, Simangele Manyere, Tawanda Udzerema and Lackson Mudachira assaulted in Mabvuku after the split of MDC because of dictatorship and violence. April 2010: Toendepi Shonhe (party director-general) and Chris Dhlamini (security director) assaulted outside Harvest House. May 2011: Inspector Mutedza was brutally stoned to death at Glen View 3 Shopping Centre by MDC-T. Tungamirai Madzokere, who was then councillor for Glen View Ward 32, Yvonne Musarurwa, the party s youth deputy secretary and Last Maengahama have since been convicted of murder with actual intent. February 2014: Secretary-general Tendai Biti and youth chairperson Solomon Madzore escape assault at Harvest House.February 2014: Deputy treasurer-general Elton Mangoma and youth secretary Promise Mkwananzi allegedly assaulted outside Harvest House. March 2014: MDC-T Harare North youth secretary for information Angela Hwanyanya attacked at Harvest House on allegations of belonging to the Elton Mangoma led faction. June 2017: Policeman Talkmore Phiri is attacked by rogue MDC-T youths during an unsanctioned demonstration near Harvest House and dies the same day from injuries sustained in the assault. August 2017: Some activists linked to MDC-T president Morgan Tsvangirai beat up party vice president Thokozani Khupe, national organising secretary Mr Abednico Bhebhe and national chairman Mr Lovemore Moyo at the party s provincial headquarters in Bulawayo for allegedly holding an unsanctioned feedback meeting on the signing of an MDC Alliance by various opposition political parties.