Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa consoles Muzenda family members at their residence in Chisipite, Harare, yesterday. Looking on are Senator Tsitsi Muzenda, Minister of State for Liaising in Psychomotor Activities in Education and Vocational Training Josaya Hungwe, Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development Minister Dr Joseph Made and Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Minister Dr Christopher MushohwePaidamoyo Chipunza Senior Reporter Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa yesterday described August as a cursed month for the revolutionary Zanu-PF which lost three luminaries over a 10 day period. Speaking to mourners in both Chisipite and Belvedere where he separately visited to console the Muzenda and Rutanhire families following the passing on of Mbuya Maud Muzenda widow to the late Vice President Simon Muzenda who died on Tuesday and Cde George Peter Rutanhire who died last Saturday, VP Mnangagwa said it would not have been possible for the two cadres to be buried without him paying his condolences.He said he was unable to attend Cde Shuvai Mahofa s burial as he had not yet fully recovered.Cde Rutanhire and Mbuya Muzenda will be buried at the National Heroes Acre today. This has been a very difficult month for us, said VP Mnangagwa. I will not talk about my personal issues, but we lost Cde Mahofa, Cde Rutanhire and Amai Muzenda. When God s time has come, it would have come. There is no debate or feasibility study. VP Mnangagwa chronicled the journey he travelled with Cde Rutanhire and Mbuya Muzenda.He described Mbuya Muzenda as a loving and polite woman who, together with her husband, played a critical role during the liberation struggle. Just like her husband, she was polite and was soft-hearted, he said.VP Mnangagwa described Cde Rutanhire as a true revolutionary and dedicated cadre who remained loyal to the party till his death.VP Mnangagwa was accompanied by his wife Auxillia, son Emmerson Jnr, Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Minister Dr Christopher Mushohwe, Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development Minister Dr Joseph Made, Minister of State for Liaising on Psychomotor Activities in Education Minister Josaya Hungwe, Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Secretary Virginia Mabhiza and other senior Government officials.Meanwhile, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also paid its condolences to the Muzenda family.In his condolence message, Minister Simbarashe Mumbengegwi described Amai Muzenda as humble and loyal to both his family and the liberation struggle. Gogo Muzenda will be remembered for her humility, love, courage and devotion not only in support for her family during the incarceration of her husband by the settler colonial regime, but also for the armed struggle for the liberation of our motherland, Zimbabwe, said Minister Mumbengegwi.He said his Ministry took solace in the fact that Mbuya Muzenda lived long enough to see the fruits of her sweat in the free, democratic and non-racial Zimbabwe. The ministry wishes to convey its profound condolences to the Muzenda family, Zanu-PF, the Government and the entire Zimbabwean nation on this sad loss, he said. May the Muzenda family be consoled and find strength in the fact their loss is shared by the entire nation which grieves with them during this difficult period. May Gogo Muzenda s soul rest in eternal peace. 