JOHANNESBURG. &#8211; It is more about the journey. The destination or in this case the Super Rugby crown will not define the Lions says captain Jaco Kriel. The Lions clash with the Crusaders in today s Super Rugby final at Ellis Park and Kriel believes one game can t possibly begin to tell their tale. The match starts at 4pm. I don t believe it defines the side at all given the journey we ve been through in the last couple of years Kriel said. You can t define a side by one game. You have to look at the four years. The team building the guys caring for each other building a brotherhood. That love for each other. Creating that bond has been central in building a team greater than the sum of its parts. That all for one culture has been all too evident. I don t think any other union has what we have here insisted winger Courtnall Skosan. As a brotherhood and a family it s really special to be here. Something to treasure. That environment creates the freedom for the players to express themselves. Before they can do that they need to do the hard yards against challengers who come with a massive reputation. The final is very much a case of the new pretenders to the throne up against the competition s blue bloods hell-bent on restoring the old order.The cool-as-you-like conquerors and now defenders of the north (the Lions conceded the fewest tries in the league stages) against the mighty marauders of the south. The Crusaders up front in particular will pose questions of the Lions they are unlikely to have encountered this winter. The number of All Black players they have in their pack says something in itself said scrum-half Ross Cronj . The stats don t lie. They have one of the best line-outs and one of the best scrums. It is going to be a massive challenge for our forwards. Once on the front foot the visitors are known to wreak havoc with their back division. Clinically they are great. They can punish you from turnover ball. They ve got a great counter attack and they have great ball players. They out-muscle a lot of teams. It s going to be important for our forwards to front up. They are vulnerable in one or two areas of the game Cronj said crucially without expanding. &#8211; Sport24.