Andy MuridzoTawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent Contemporary musician Andy Muridzo, who launches his third album Tichambotenderera tomorrow at 7 Arts Theatre, has embarked on a door to door campaign to sell his CDs as well as promoting the album. The young musician said he will lead his team in several suburbs mostly the ghetto selling his CDs.Speaking through his manager, Gift Petro, the musician said he has targeted 20 000 households distributing the CDs in person. We have already identified locations such as Mufakose, Mbare, Highfield, Glen View and Glen Norah. Andy himself will be leading the crew selling the CDs in each household, he said.Petro said the campaign was also another way they would push their works as well as fighting piracy.The album has songs such as Memo , Yahombarume , Tichambotenderera , Emma a track that featured Jah Prayzah, Mai Maria , Merenziana , Dhibhi Remhuru , Chingoma Cherudo , Dairai , Kumabumbe , and Ndirangarirei . We are trying to be different because people have their perceptions. By creating different beats we are being fair to our consumers, he said.Petro said Muridzo featured Jah Prayzah on the album to cement their relationship. He has been very supportive from the beginning and we are happy that our Military Touch Movement (MTM) is yielding results, he said.The young musician has blended love lyrics with different beats that were created by producers Maselo, Tamuka and Chiweda. His duet with Motswana sensation Naledi Kaisara aka Slizer has been dropped from the album because it was yet to be finished. We hope to release it on Slizer s album that will be released soon, he said.Muridzo become a household name with his second album Ngarizhambe that had several instant hits.The young musician who has been labelled a Jah Prayzah copycat has convinced Zimbabweans that he is his own through the album and other singles he has released.Petro is confident that the 13-track album will keep Muridzo s standing in the music industry. We have done our groundwork and all is set for the big day. All artistes on MTM movement will be coming on board, he said.He thanked Edward Mutukwa owner of Club Veritas in Westlea for his support. Mutukwa has been with us for a long time and his support is worth mentioning, he said.