Arts Reporter Sandra Ndebele has collaborated with fellow Bulawayo artiste Mzobanzi Mzoe 7 Mlauzi on a track titled Ingoma that will be released on Wednesday.Sandra (pictured above) said her duet with Mzoe 7 came after she was impressed with his debut album and their relationship, which began a long time ago, made it easy to work together. He is someone I have known for a long time and we decided to work together after the release of his first album. Because of other commitments, it took us two months to work on the track and I am happy we will be dropping it on Wednesday. It is a good track and people should look forward to it, said Sandra, who is popularly known as Sandy.The song is one of Sandy s singles that she will be churning out this year, ahead of her album that is set for November.The song is a party track that takes its meaning from the fun of playing the drum in music. It is about how music (drum) can change people s lives.Sandy recognised the talent in Mzoe 7 and saw if fit to work with him. I chose to collaborate with Mzoe 7 because I noticed that he is a very talented upcoming young man. He has done many good songs and I urge people to listen to the upcoming song to hear how good he is. The track announces the return of Sandy after taking a break from active showbiz when she was concentrating on her family and studies. I was choosing what to do and what not to do, depending on my availability because I had to spend more time with my family. I was also studying and I had a tight schedule that kept me busy. I cannot say I had taken a complete break from music. Music is my love and I was doing it whenever I got a chance. Now that I am done with most things that kept me busy, I am focusing on music more than before. Sandy said she will be doing more collaborations and nothing will stop her from using her God-given talent. Life is what you make it. Nothing and no one should stop you from being what and who you want to be. Not even the sky is the limit. Anything is possible and achievable if you believe in God. 