Albert NyathiUnited Nations Women Gender Champion Albert Nyathi on Tuesday launched a 17 track multi-lingual music album and documentary film on gender based violence. The album and documentary titled I am because you are captures issues of abuse of women in 16 local languages from the length and breadth of Zimbabwe.Speaking during the launch, Nyathi said he decided to work with various young musicians on the project using vernacular so that communities understand better. I decided to domesticate this global journey, take ownership of it and made it my business to go out to the communities, out into the deepest corners of Zimbabwe and find community voices, community champions that would carry this dream further and deeper, he said. Yes different languages, yes different cultures, but no matter where we went the story, whether sung or spoken, the story of violence against women and girls, the story of gender based violence sounded the same everywhere. The guest of honour during the launch, Head of European Union Delegation to Zimbabwe, Ambassador Philippe Van Damme urged the Government to help the arts and culture sector play a leading role of championing gender equality and empowerment. We call upon the Government to prioritise the arts and culture sector and fully develop it so that it can play its role as a vector for advancing gender equality and women s empowerment, he said.Ambassador Van Damme commended the project as it has multi-faceted benefits. All these projects seek to harness the impact of arts and culture to advance gender equality, improve livelihoods and promote freedom of expression, he said. The EU is fully supportive of the development of arts and culture in Zimbabwe and its role in contributing to national development. An indicative amount of EUR 4 million has been earmarked under the 11th European Development Fund, to continue this support, and presently we are developing in consultation with the various stakeholders a new programme for the arts and culture to begin in 2018. The Chairperson of the Zimbabwe gender Commission, Commissioner Margaret Mukahanana-Sangarwe commended Nyathi for standing up for the plight of women.Every year the world celebrates women s day on March 8 and this year s theme is #BeBoldForChange and the national theme is The Woman We want is bankable, business minded, brainy, beautiful, bold, blessed and balanced. 