Tinashe MungoshiVongai Mbara Arts Reporter The name Mungoshi certainly needs no introduction at all ever since it saw the limelight in 1964 when legendary writer, Charles Mungoshi wrote Cain s Medal for the then iconic African Parade. The name has since remained relevant through the works of David, Joseph, Jesesi, Jonah, Charles Junior, Farai and recently Tinashe Mungoshi.The Mungoshi family has raised writers, actors and actress, motivational speakers and music is the latest addition to their dynasty.Tinashe Tash Mungoshi, who is a renowned music producer, said he is determined to carry on with legacy set by his family through music. Art is like DNA to the Mungoshi family so it was born in me. As a kid, I grew up listening to lots of music mostly because my parents loved music a lot. My father (Joseph Mungoshi) also used to be a music executive back in the day and he managed Busi Ncube, said Tinashe.At only 23, Tinashe owns a full-fledged recording studio which he attribute to his family and hard work. I got a lot of help from my parents to build my studio and it was also down to my ambition and organisation for Zitribe (his studio) to be successful. My parents were talking about smashing the backyard cottage so I used all my saved up money to buy material and turned it into a recording studio. I then got financial from my parents and uncle Jonah Mungoshi to buy some studio equipment, he said.Tinashe has worked with Roki, Willis Wataffi, Edith WeUtonga, Taurai Mandebvu, Amard among many others.The young Mungoshi brother also opened up about the pressures of matching up to the creative dynasty that has been set the award winning Mungoshi family.In an interview, Tinashe said being part of the Mungoshi family is challenging, however he is honoured to be part of it because he is learning from the best. The pressure is there and it is enormous. Matching the standards that has been set by my family is a huge challenge but to be honest, it is also a blessing. It is because of them that I am where I stand today, said Tinashe.