Zimbabwe Defence Forces Commander General Constantino Guvheya Dominic Nyikadzino Chiwenga exchanges gifts with Utara University Vice Chancellor Professor Dato Seri Dr Mohamed Mustafa Ishak during a dinner in Harare on Thursday. (Picture by John Manzongo)John Manzongo Herald Reporter Zimbabwe Defence Forces will continue to seek collaboration with progressive nations which do not trample on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of others, Zimbabwe Defence Forces Commander General Constantino Guvheya Dominic Nyikadzino Chiwenga has said. Speaking at a dinner in honour of a University of Utara delegation which was in the country to seek cooperation with the National Defence University in Harare on Thursday, Gen Chiwenga hailed Zimbabwe-Malaysia relations. The Malaysian technical cooperation team has over the years been offering short-to-medium term scholarships in diplomacy, finance, human resources and trade to Zimbabweans in different sectors, he said. The collaboration we recently committed ourselves to through a memorandum of understanding will go a long way in our continuous efforts to professionalise our defence force in the midst of our economic challenges caused by the debilitating illegal sanctions imposed on our country by Britain, America and European allies following the country s historic land reform programme. It is my fervent hope that this relationship between our two sister organisations will maintain an upward trajectory. The skills gained will go a long way, as they will turn us into a formidable and extraordinarily capable entity. University of Utara Vice Chancellor Professor Mohamed Mustafa Ishak said knowledge and understanding of an increasingly interconnected world in the 21st century will help Africans, especially the young generations, to become responsible and successful future leaders. University of Utara becomes the first public university from Malaysia to enter into an agreement with a public higher education institution in Zimbabwe, he said. Collaborations are necessary as no single university or institution of higher learning, no matter how large, can single-handedly address future challenges. For us at Utara University, partnerships with other institutions of higher learning around the world is not an option but a necessity. Prof Isak commended the country as a perfect tourist destination with hospitable citizens.