Lloyd MutasaEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS coach Lloyd Mutasa is happy with a full house after key defender Obey Mwerahari recovered in time for their opening match against FC Platinum at the National Sports Stadium this Sunday. Mwerahari has shaken off an ankle injury that troubled him for much of pre-season and is now in line for selection.The former Young Warriors man was a key player in DeMbare s campaign last year when he stepped into central defence from right-back after Augustine Mbara had moved to South Africa. For now we have a full house. Everyone is up and about and I am sure we will choose our team from a big pool of all the registered players. I m happy we do not have any injuries. Obey has recovered and has been playing in the practice games of late, said Mutasa.Mwerahari is one of the key players that have stuck with the Harare giants who parted ways with some of their big players during the off-season.The defender nearly retraced his footsteps back to ZPC Kariba after his contract had ended last year, but had a change of heart.His presence is a big boost to the new-look squad that has about 11 new faces among them Gift Saunyama, Cleopas Kapupirika, Emmanuel Mandiranga, Quality Kangadze, Phakamani Dube, Lincoln Zvasiya, goalkeeper Blessing Mwandimutsira and Cameroonian striker Ntouba Epoupa Christian Joel. The competition is high. Everyone is itching to be part of the final 18 since this will be our first game. But I am sure it s a good headache because we will be selecting our team from youngsters who really are eager to turn the corner, said Mutasa.The Glamour Boys coach believes the opening match against FC Platinum is a good test for his new-look side.Mutasa, who has picked Biggie Zuze as his assistant, reiterated that DeMbare will be competitive this year despite the team going through a rebuilding exercise. We have always been saying by the time we get to the beginning of the season we will be okay. I am sure we are okay and ready for our first encounter. We have told the Dynamos supporters that what we are very sure of is that we are going to be better than what we did last year. It s always nice for our faithful fans coming to witness the first match because there is a saying that goes with the line that the first cut is the deepest. So they mustn t miss the first match because it can give them the picture of what we are all about going forward. I am sure we are playing one of the best sides in the Premier League and it being our first game I think it will give us a better dimension. So it means going into that fixture we are really determined, we really wanting to get a positive result and that can only, but enhance the confidence of the youngsters if we manage to collect three points from that game, said Mutasa.FixturesTomorrow: Harare City v Yadah (NSS), ZPC Kariba v How Mine (Nyamhunga), Ngezi Platinum v Black Rhinos (Baobab), Chapungu v Triangle (Ascot), Bantu Rovers v Chicken Inn (Luveve), Tsholotsho v Hwange (Barbourfields)Sunday: Dynamos v FC Platinum (NSS), Highlanders v Bulawayo City (Barbourfields), Shabanie v CAPS United (Maglas)