Grace Chingoma Senior Sport Reporter NGEZI Platinum Stars players are confident of coming back home with a positive result from their clash with Clube Recreativo Desportivo do Libolo in a CAF Confederation Cup tie in Angola this afternoon. The match kicks off at 3pm at the Est dio Municipal de Calulo.The team left Harare on Thursday while the rest of the contingent, mainly the executive members, left yesterday.Before departure, skipper and utility player Liberty Chakoroma said they were ready for the test. We need a win. We are going to fight. We are going to bring the result. The supporters and everyone have to believe in us and in turn we need their support as well, he said.Goalkeeper Nelson Chadya, who had to shake off an injury to make it into the team, conceded that it was going to be a tough game. We want a draw. A win will be a bonus. We need to surprise them but it s a tough match, he said.Ngezi defender Partson Jaure, who once travelled to Angola when Dynamos met Interclube in the Champions League, said they respected their opponents. I have been to Angola, playing against Interclube. So I have an idea of football there. It is going to be a tough match. Angolans are good and big. We need a win and if we fail we will be content with a draw. Physically bigger people tend to be slow, so we can use that to our advantage. We are now fit and playing better than the game we played against Mauritius. We will study them, will be very cautious at first and then can attack, said Jaure.Midfielder Tichaona Mabvura was confident that they can upstage the hosts in their backyard. We went through some video clips of their play and we can match them. They are weak in defence. We are going there with a positive mind and we will play an open game, he said.Young forward Terrence Dzukamanja, who scored the only goal in the reverse tie against Pamplemousses at the National Sports Stadium, said he itching to get his name on the score sheet again.The 22-year-old has been enjoying his game. If I get the chance I will score again. I am very hungry for goals and I am looking forward to rewriting the same script. I might find the target and leave the Angolans crying, he said.Last week, Ngezi stepped up their preparations by playing some friendly matches as they beat ZPC Munyati 4-0 and lost 1-2 to Black Rhinos.The Mhondoro side are anticipating a physical game from the Angolans and coach Tonderai Ndiraya is contemplating congesting his midfield.He is likely to play with a lone striker upfront.Recreativo do Libolo have been active in their league where they are third on the log after seven games.The Angolans have a better history in the African safari compared to Ngezi, playing at this level for the first time, and boast of four domestic league titles and appearances in both Confederation Cup and the Champions League. I am very confident that our preparations will give us positive results. We believe in ourselves, we believe in the players and we believe in the preparations we had, said Ndiraya. We are in the tournament to enjoy ourselves and to learn. In enjoying, we want to win and that is our mission. Angola is a serious football nation and they are better than Mauritius by far in terms of ranking. Their league is well resourced and they are very strong. We sat down as a team and we discussed with the boys after watching videos. They have played in the mini-league of the Champions league. We want a scoring draw and we are fancying our chances. They might be good but they are not special. 