LONDON. Lionel Messi was yesterday reportedly handed a four-match ban just hours ahead of Argentina s World Cup soccer clash with Bolivia. The Argentina forward was also fined 10 000 Swiss Francs for having directed insulting words at the official during his side s World Cup qualifier with Chile last Thursday.The Barcelona star was caught on camera venting his fury at an assistant who signalled he had committed a foul late on in Argentina s 1-0 win.He was not shown a card at the time.However, 29-year-old has now been punished and was set to miss last night s meeting with Bolivia as well as Argentina s following three World Cup qualifiers.Messi will also miss the qualifier in Uruguay in August, at home to Venezuela the following month and at home to Peru in October, meaning he will only be able to return for Argentina s final qualifying match away to Ecuador.Argentina went into last night s match lying in third place in the South American qualifying group, with only the top four guaranteed a place in Russia 2018.Only three points separated second-placed Uruguay and Chile in sixth, meaning Messi s absences could prove costly for his country.A statement from FIFA said: Footballer Lionel Messi has been found guilty of violating art. 57 of the FDC (FIFA disciplinary code) for having directed insulting words at an assistant referee. As a result, Lionel Messi will be suspended for four official matches and sanctioned with a fine of CHF 10 000. It added that the suspension was in line with the FIFA disciplinary committee s previous rulings in similar cases .Messi was subsequently left out of Argentina s team for their World Cup qualifier against Bolivia last night.The Barcelona superstar was initially under investigation by FIFA after being accused of saying f*** off, your mother s a c*** to a match official.Football s governing body picked up on his alleged use of foul language aimed at two assistant referees.And Argentinian journalist Fernando Czyz said Argentina left him out of the squad for last night s match.Footage showed Messi confronting linesmen and giving them both barrels.Assistant refs Marcelo van Gasse and Dewson Silva bore the brunt of Messi s frustrations and the striker now faces a four-game ban.Van Gasse and Messi argued during the game while Silva was targeted after the game in the tunnel after refusing to shake their hands.The incident was left out the referee s report after the game but was sent on later as an add on.And it was a big blow for Bauza who already had four players out with suspensions.Argentina Football Association vice-president Armando Perez said: If he behaved out of place, then he should be penalised like any other player. He should not get a different deal just because he is the best player on the planet. It seems to me that he is in a position to be investigated. Conmebol is asking for all the information. Everything that we know must be passed on. The Daily Express.