Midlands Correspondent Ms Esther Mhuri of Gweru says she has lost all her possessions to cancer and is now living like a pauper after selling both movable and immovable property to get treatment. Ms Mhuri (37) lost her left breast to cancer sometime ago and is now due for an operation to remove the right one after the disease spread. She had become desperate for treatment until she got in touch with The Killer Zivhu Foundation this week, which presented her with $3 000 that will enable her to under the operation to remove the breast.Founder of The Killer Zivhu Foundation, Dr Killer Zivhu, travelled to Gweru yesterday with his team where they handed over the money to Ms Mhuri and promised to assist her in future.Narrating her ordeal to The Herald yesterday, Ms Mhuri thanked Dr Zivhu for quickly reacting to her desperate situation. I sold my house in Senga suburb (in Gweru) in a bid to get the money to undergo treatment of this cancer, she said. As if that was not enough, when the disease persisted and became more complicated, I had to sell my two cars, a BMW and a Chevrolet Cruise, to raise more funds. In fact, this disease left me with nothing. I used to run a hair saloon in town, but it has since closed because I cannot not afford to work any more. I have four children who need food and school fees. Ms Mhuri said she was living in excruciating pain and could not wait to go back to the hospital after getting the lifeline from the donation by Dr Zivhu.Dr Zivhu said as a social welfare organisation, they were prepared to assist desperate situations like that of Ms Mhuri.He said it was important to save lives and help those living under desperate situations, despite one s financial status. Ms Mhuri got in touch with us after getting information that there was such a foundation, he said. We assessed her situation and realised it was desperate and needed urgent attention. As a foundation, we cannot ignore such situations like this one and with the little resources we have we play our part when necessary. Dr Zivhu, who has since indicated that he formed his foundation after being inspired by the philanthropic works of President Mugabe and his wife Amai Grace Mugabe, said it was crucial for Zimbabweans to help each other. Imagine what we will achieve as Zimbabweans if we emulate the good works of the First Family President Mugabe and his wife Amai Grace Mugabe, he said. The First Family has shown us the way which we must all must follow in helping each other in our communities. Our foundation was inspired by such works as the one the First Lady is carrying our at her Mazowe Children s Home and many others being done by President Mugabe. If we are all committed we will definitely move mountains and all those disadvantaged people in communities will get a smile. You do not have to be a millionaire to be able to help others. Spare the little you have to help others in worse situations than yours. 