Habakkuk 2 vs 3; For the vision awaits an appointed time, but at the end it will speak and it will not lie. Though it tarries, wait for it; Because it will surely come, it will not tarry. I had an interesting conversation on a flight the other day, the person I was sitting next to asked me about my perspective on life.I told him I firmly believed that in any circumstance God is never late and that He always allows and facilitates for you to get to where He feels you should be.I then gave an example that sometimes we are bound by human rules that say you should finish your education by a certain time frame, and if you don t you think you have been left behind. That said, does it really matter even if you have been left behind?In our circles we would probably say that it does, but for all intents and purposes, time is a measure of our human wants rather than God s divine purpose.The gentleman then told me how he had struggled to go to school after his parents died. Then after two years of just doing nothing one of his teachers remembered that he had been a brilliant student and wondered what had happened to him.The teacher looked for him, located him and then got him a scholarship and he managed to write his exams. He had been forgotten until the Lord remembered him. Through his teacher, the Lord ensured that he finished his education albeit the stops and starts.He lost a few years in between, but today he stands as an equal among others, and as he stands there, he knows what the Lord has done for him.During the time when he was out of school, he would have never imagined that one day, despite the delays in his life, he would overtake those that went ahead of him.Is that not amazing? The Lord never forgets His own, despite the amount of time that may have passed.He will get you there, right on schedule.Be Blessed.REFLECTIONS OF A WORK IN PROGRESS . . .For more info: Visit our website: www.thefig-tree.org; e-mail us on [email&#160;protected]; catch us on StarFM, Monday to Friday at 0620hours.