MANCHESTER. Zlatan Ibrahimovic has hinted he will stay at Manchester United beyond the current season. Ibrahimovic has confirmed he is in talks with Manchester United over a new contract, saying he never leaves a job unfinished .The 35-year-old has an option of a further 12-month contract after he moved to Old Trafford on a free transfer from Paris Saint-Germain last summer.The Swedish striker has been a sensation since arriving at Old Trafford in the summer on a free from Paris Saint-Germain.Ibrahimovic has scored 26 goals in all competitions but is currently sitting out with a three-match ban for an elbow on Tyrone Mings. And his Manchester United contract is up in the summer but there is an option for a second season.He has been linked with a move to LA Galaxy but Jose Mourinho is desperate to keep his main man.So far the 35-year-old has been coy on his future, but now he has admitted he never leaves a job unfinished and says he is in talks with the clubs over a new deal.Speaking about his time at United he said: I enjoy. I m a person when I go into something I put my head 200 per cent, and I do what I m good at. I go in, I go for the kill and I go out. And when I go out there is no complaints, that s what I do. I never leave a job unfinished. I always go in, do my job, and in the way that is a fair play, a fair deal, that is what I do. Speaking at an event for his range of Zlatan fragrances Ibrahimovic confirmed that talks were ongoing about his future, he said: Let s see what happens, we are talking. I have an option for another year, I want to do great as long as I m here, so let us see, there is a lot of time. I m enjoying being at a fantastic club, without doubts, one of the biggest clubs in the world with a great coach. I know him before, he s a winner, he s the perfect coach for this club. Being a Manchester United player, I don t know how many people have that possibility but I am a Man United player, people wanted me here, I chose the club, I chose the best English club, that s the way it works. The Daily Express.