WASHINGTON. WikiLeaks yesterday released thousands of documents that it said described sophisticated software tools used by the Central Intelligence Agency to break into smartphones, computers and even Internet-connected televisions. If the documents are authentic, as appeared likely at first review, the release would be the latest coup for the anti-secrecy organisation and a serious blow to the CIA, which maintains its own hacking capabilities to be used for espionage.The initial release, which WikiLeaks said was only the first part of the document collection, included 7,818 web pages with 943 attachments, the group said. The entire archive of CIA material consists of several hundred million lines of computer code, it said.Among other disclosures that, if confirmed, would rock the technology world, the WikiLeaks release said that the CIA and allied intelligence services had managed to bypass encryption on popular phone and messaging services such as Signal, WhatsApp and Telegram. According to the statement from WikiLeaks, government hackers can penetrate Android phones and collect audio and message traffic before encryption is applied. The source of the documents was not named. WikiLeaks said the documents, which it called Vault 7, had been circulated among former US government hackers and contractors in an unauthorised manner, one of whom has provided WikiLeaks with portions of the archive. WikiLeaks said the source, in a statement, set out policy questions that urgently need to be debated in public, including whether the CIA s hacking capabilities exceed its mandated powers and the problem of public oversight of the agency. The source, the group said, wishes to initiate a public debate about the security, creation, use, proliferation and democratic control of cyberweapons. The documents, from the CIA s Center for Cyber Intelligence, are dated from 2013 to 2016, and WikiLeaks described them as the largest ever publication of confidential documents on the agency. One former intelligence officer who briefly reviewed the documents on Tuesday morning said some of the code names for CIA programmes, an organisation chart and the description of a CIA hacking base appeared to be genuine.A CIA spokesman, Dean Boyd, said, We do not comment on the authenticity or content of purported intelligence documents. WikiLeaks, which has sometimes been accused of recklessly leaking information that could do harm, said it had redacted names and other identifying information from the collection. It said it was not releasing the computer code for actual, usable cyberweapons until a consensus emerges on the technical and political nature of the CIA s programme and how such weapons should be analyzed, disarmed and published. New York Times.