Imelda TsumbaElliot Ziwira @The Book Store It is not every day that a writer in any genre launches 20 books, as what 58-year-old motivational writer Imelda Tsumba (IT) has set out to do. Here she talks to At the Bookstore s pen Elliot Ziwira (EZ) about her astounding feat, passion and ambitions. EZ: Thank you so much Imelda for gracing us with your presence. How are you?IT: You are welcome Elliot. I am also grateful to you for allowing me to talk to you. I am fine and you?EZ: Imelda, I understand you are a motivational writer. Can you tell me more about yourself and your journey to becoming a published writer?IT: Thank you for asking. I thank my Creator for the life He has given me. Life is full of ups and downs, and I have experienced both. I have also realised that both are necessary for growth. You learn from the downs and become a better person; you enjoy the ups as they season your walk on this side of Heaven.Some people give up easily in the dark days. Having gone through the dark and come out, I enjoy helping people during their dark days because I know there is strength in them to overcome. Life challenges are international, not just local, so anyone who gets hold of my books will have incentive to enjoy life and continue living. That is my life in a nutshell.EZ: What inspired you to consider motivational writing?IT: There is a story in the Bible of a man called King David. He encouraged himself in his God whenever he faced difficult circumstances. Whenever I have faced difficult situations, I have found writing to be very therapeutic. Writing is my best friend and I enjoy spending my precious time doing so.EZ: Many people believe that motivational writing cannot be considered serious writing. What is your take on that?IT: When you encourage people and spur them to good works, that is the best thing anyone can do in this life. Whenever I was down, reading an encouraging message from a friend who did not even know what I was going through was healing to my soul. Picking up a motivational book during a difficult time leaves one with hope for living. Motivational writing is good, it is an antidote to depression.EZ: How many books have you launched and when?IT: I launched 20 books at the Borrowdale Brooke Clubhouse on Friday, March 10, 2017 .EZ: Considering that you launched 20 books, how do you intend to market them, or how have you been marketing them?IT: We currently sell our books on Amazon. Slumber not in the tents of your fathers, the world is advancing, advance with it. We are in a rapid, digital communications technology era and this is the way we have chosen to market our books. We are currently working on digital and audio copies. Hard copies are available and people can get copies on request.EZ: Have you had prior market research for your books?IT: Yes, I have, like I said, depression is international so we market to anyone who wants to be lifted up and desires to get hold of our books.EZ: Do you consider writing an occupation or a hobby?IT: When you move people s thinking from darkness to light, to save them from going in the wrong direction that becomes an occupation. Being a people helper is my reason for living.EZ: If it is an occupation how many books do you write per month?IT: I have made a very interesting discovery, I have realised that people are too busy nowadays and have no time to read books that take weeks to finish. One can complete reading one of my books in two hours, so I try to write as often as I can.EZ: Do you think there is a future in motivational writing?IT: Of course, there is a future in motivational writing. Stop depression and my job will be finished. People are desperate for encouragement every day. People are looking for encouragement every day. We need more people to start encouraging others through motivational writing.EZ: What do you mostly write about?IT: I write about life experiences, anything I can think of that can help someone. I have had many people who have been encouraged after reading my books. There is a testimony from someone who just read my book, The Unexpected &#8211; How I Dealt with the Sudden Death of My Son , that I would like to share with you. She had lost a brother and it really affected her; it hurt her so much, but reading about experiences of other people in the book, helped her to deal with her loss in a new light.She testified that the book has insights on how to cope during a funeral and afterwards which has the effect of taking her back visually to the times she and her family spent with her brother, son, father, husband and uncle and she always feels some kind of peace when she thinks about him.EZ: Why has writing about such experiences been of help to you and others?IT: After losing my first son, the traumatic experience motivated me to help other people to prepare for death. I write to encourage the living and to equip the next generation.EZ: What are some of the titles of your books?IT: Who Messed You Up? Turn Your Mess into a Message , If You are Going Through Fire, Don t Stop , Debt is Like a Python, It Will Choke You Until You Die , What Are You Afraid Of? Fear Will Paralyse You , just to mention a few.EZ: What is your advice to aspiring motivational writers?IT: Make sure writing is a passion, because creativity and ideas will flow freely. Be a reader, because when you read a lot, you will not be short of ideas. Be a team player and work with people who are skilled in their areas, for example graphic designers for covers, editors and publishers, etc. Enjoy what you do and never stop learning.EZ: Seeing that motivational writing encourages change of attitude and gives others hope, do you research on your topics or you simply use your own experiences?IT: I use both &#8211; learning does not end, no one has it all. You can learn a lot from other people and their situations.EZ: Do you not sometimes find yourself caught between imposition and impartation when you have to use own experiences as a yardstick for positive change?IT: Own experiences are authentic and you can never argue with that. People have choices and if something doesn t work, it doesn t work. There are preferences and convictions, most people know what they want and life principles are not localised, they work for anyone who will follow them.EZ: Do you think your own standing in society can be a plus on your writing?IT: I think so, especially with those who know your lifestyle. People just want the truth that will help them. Your reputation will follow you wherever you go.EZ: Those who know your lifestyle? For the benefit of those who do not know you what can you say about your lifestyle and reputation?IT: I am very happy with my simple lifestyle. I am a hard worker, very creative. Those who know me know that I am a very punctual person. I believe that time is time and should not be wasted, time is money. On time is late, always go early for an appointmentEZ: Do you come from a family of high achievers?IT: Yes, I do. We have had members of my family where I was born Rusike, and also my husband s family, Tsumba, who have enjoyed success. We are all educators in one way or another.EZ: Such influential names I agree. Are you in a way related to the famous Rusike Brothers and the affable former RBZ governor Leonard Tsumba? As well as Elias Rusike?IT: Yes, I am married into the Tsumba family. The famous Rusike Brothers are my cousins. I am the last born in the late Elias Rusike s family.EZ: For how long have you been writing?IT: For over 10 years.EZ: Who do you consider to be the best motivational writer that you have ever read?IT: The writings of Jesus in the Bible.EZ: So, you are a Christian writer? How do you think non-Christian readers take your advice since socio-economic problems are universal, and religion is a thorny issue?IT: No one is perfect, we all make mistakes. I enjoy learning from my mistakes and becoming a better person. I take lemon situations and make lemonade from them. I am a Christian, I write on issues that affect life in general to anyone. I believe that socio-economic problems affect people the world over, but in my life experiences, I have found that practical, relevant, effective, moral and ethical principles help everyone, regardless of religious affiliation.EZ: Any parting shot?IT: Because I have been there before, I would like to encourage younger people to explore their creativity in writing and back it up with hard work and dedication.EZ: Thank you once again Imelda.