Mashudu Netsianda and Thupeyo Muleya A 26-year-old Beitbridge woman allegedly hacked her 50-year-old husband to death with a machete following a domestic row over the paternity of their five-month-old daughter. The incident, which has since become the talk of the border town, happened on Saturday night at the couple s home in Dulibadzimu suburb.Majahana Mazibuko died a few minutes after he was admitted to Beitbridge District Hospital.Neighbours and relatives said that Mazibuko and his wife, Geraldine Nyoni, had a long-standing domestic feud.They also described Nyoni as a naturally violent person.Mazibuko s brother, Mr Vusa Matshudula, said the couple had a long-standing paternity dispute. My brother and his wife had a long-standing domestic dispute, she said. It looks like on that particular night, the major problem that actually triggered the fight was the issue of paternity of their daughter. The wife had earlier told my brother that the baby was not his and this degenerated into a fight. Mr Matshudula said soon after committing the alleged crime, Nyoni went to Dulivhadimu Police Base where she reported her husband for denying her custody of their daughter. When my sister-in-law went to the police base she lied to the police alleging that my brother was refusing to give her their daughter, he said.Mr Matshudula said he was advised of his brother s death by his sister, who arrived at his house with Mazibuko s baby. The baby was picked by one of my sisters who found her lying on the blood-stained floor crying, said Mr Matshudula.The machete which was used to commit the murder was found at the house.A neighbour who declined to be named, said she was watching television when she heard a scream. I was watching a movie on TV when I heard people shouting at each other and the next thing it was a scream, said the neighbour. When I went outside to investigate, I saw a man storming out of his room with blood gushing out of his neck and he was screaming and shouting for help. Matabeleland South police spokesperson Inspector Philisani Ndebele confirmed the incident, but could not give full details, saying they were still investigating the case. I can confirm that we are investigating a murder case that occurred in Dulivhadzimu in Beitbridge on Saturday night, he said. I cannot give full information for now. 