Jurgen KloppLONDON. &#8211; Jurgen Klopp warned everyone at Liverpool is playing for their futures &#8211; including himself.Klopp pulled no punches in a brutally honest assessment of Liverpool s 3-1 defeat by Leicester City on Monday night as they blew the chance to get back into the top four of the English Premier League. The Reds have won just two of their 12 games in all competitions since the turn of the year, and fallen 14 points behind English Premier League leaders Chelsea, and Klopp insists performances have simply not been good enough.Kop boss Klopp said: It s getting more serious now. We all play for our futures, myself included. We get judged every day, especially on match days. Of course performances have influence on these things. I don t think they aren t as good as I thought, but I think they need my help more to show it every week. I feel maximum responsible because I am. I hope I use the word we and not they because I m involved in this. It s not the moment to make assessments like this, especially not in public. But I try to say the truth as often as possible. But bad performances don t help anyone, that s clear. Klopp was fierce in his criticism of the team s overall defending as he admitted they were swept aside on an emotional night for Leicester. Klopp, who also admitted captain Jordan Henderson is unlikely to be fit to face Arsenal on Saturday because of a bruised foot, added: It was not good enough in the beginning, not good enough in the middle and in the end. It was 100 per cent clear what happened with Leicester tonight. It was clear how emotional the game was because if Leicester didn t show emotion it would be really strange. The first goal was like a friendly game. Player down, throw-in, header, one pass. But we can t blame anyone else for this performance. It s our fault. We can t make any excuses, it s our responsibility. It doesn t make it better, because our job is to react. What happened tonight has happened too often this season. Everyone knows how good we can be. So that makes it even worse to accept a performance like this tonight. It s easier in a foreign language to talk about victories than about defeats. There s not a lot more to say. You can ask all the questions but I m not sure I can explain it better. We ve brought on this situation and now everyone can doubt our attitude, and that s really our fault, our mistake. Nobody else. I cannot change the result now. Meanwhile, Amie Carragher said both teams should hang their heads in shame after Leicester s 3-1 win over Liverpool on Monday night. Jamie Vardy scored twice and Danny Drinkwater hit a spectacular volley as the Premier League champions marked the first match since the departure of Claudio Ranieri with a thumping victory over Jurgen Klopp s lacklustre side. Carragher said his former club will be disappointed with their display, but while he said Leicester were brilliant, he was angered by the fact they showed the commitment they were lacking under their former boss. Leicester were brilliant, absolutely superb tonight, Carragher said. But they have won the game by energy, closing people down, being horrible and being difficult to play against. That s not tactics, that s not having great players. That s having something inside you. It is right that they are asked questions because it wasn t as though we were suddenly seeing 11 fantastic footballers, we were just seeing a team fully committed. &#8211; The Mirror.