Tendayi Gudo Our Children, Our Future March 8, 2017 marked the commemoration of International Women s Day around the globe under the theme #BeBoldForChange. This day, which can be traced back to the early 19th century in New York City when women began the fight for gender parity, is now a day that is cherished by all. International Women s Day featured different activities in various countries, from recognition of the gender parity gaps between men and women to appreciating women who have overcome these barriers and challenged stereotypes.However, there are still major gender issues world over which need redressing. According to World Economic Forum, global figures show violence towards women is still high and the gender gap will not close until 2186.Despite this, influential female leaders across the world are forging for a more gender inclusive world.The Apostolic Community was part of those who commemorated this special day. Apostolic Women Empowerment Trust (AWET) had the pleasure to celebrate with the world and a group of Bold Apostolic women at Musarara Secondary School, in Chiweshe, Mashonaland Central.The Bold Apostolic women called for change in social, economic and cultural areas that affect the Apostolic members. It was a day that saw different Apostolic women being open to dialogue about issues that affect them, their fears, achievements and ambitions.It was inspiring to note that most women highlighted the importance of educating the girl child so that they realise their dreams and become the leaders of tomorrow.There were testimonies from Apostolic women, who were married off before they turned 18 years, of the bad experiences they faced, brought about by child marriage which resulted in gender based violence.One could not help but shed a tear as a lot of emotional testimonies were given by the Apostolic women.There was also a lot of art and drama from the women. The day was well spent on the sports field as the women took time off their daily busy lifestyles to relax and network through playing soccer, netball and running.An exhibition was held as Apostolic women showcased the works of their hands. This was done so as to motivate other Apostolic Women to be empowered economically in order for them to be able to fend for their families. Most Apostolic Women work in their fields and looking after their large families.A significant number of Apostolic churches are still under patriarchal leadership. The doctrine, values and beliefs favours and supports the men and suppresses the women. For a long time, women problems have been championed by men making it difficult to address critical issues that affect women.Fortunately, the coming together of women has given the Apostolic woman power to be champions of change in their churches and help each other with ideas of how to deal with life threatening issues that affect the Apostolic woman. Having women who are being a voice for the voiceless has made so much impact in the Apostolic community.Most women are now seeking medical treatment without fear of their church leaders and husbands. Although sexual and reproductive health education are considered taboo in the Apostolic churches it is encouraging to note that a number of girls have become more aware of their rights and are discussing them in Apostolic adolescent clubs.The established Apostolic Champions of Change Clubs are making AWET s efforts to address issues that affect women to be heard.The clubs encourage women to be a support system for one another. The vulnerable and abused women are supported and empowered by other Apostolic women.However, change does not happen overnight but with the first step it is inevitable. The multi-sectoral approach that AWET has taken will change the mind-set of women and men who have always thought men are better than women.AWET believes empowering women promotes gender equality and women will be in a better position to also protect their children, especially the girl child.