Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf with Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn, commended Ethiopia s victory over Italian troops in the famous battle of Adwa saying it was a victory for the African spirit . &#8211; Africa NewsADDIS ABABA. &#8211; Ethiopians witnessed a colourful event to mark the country s victory against Italian forces in a battle that was fought over 120 years ago. The Battle of Adwa was fought on March 1, 1896, near the northern town of Adwa. Ethiopian forces prevailed over the Italians in a victory that President Mulatu Teshome says taught the country lessons of cooperation and mutual respect. Our ancestors have made huge sacrifices to safeguard the sovereignty of the country and pass it on to existing generations, the President is quoted as having said during an event in the capital, Addis Ababa. Our ancestors have made huge sacrifices to safeguard the sovereignty of the country and pass it on to existing generations. The battle, according to him, was a victory for all black people. He tasked young Ethiopians to involve themselves in the development of the country. It is my strong conviction that a generation that remembers the history of its forefathers can also make its own history. In order to pass this history on to the next generation, we have to build a war museum and a pan African University. Although a foundation stone for this project has already been laid, it has never materialised due to various reasons. Now, the Ministry of Tourism is taking on full responsibility and is establishing a secretariat office so that this can be realised soon and make Adwa a tourist destination, he added.The event saw marches by members of the Ethiopian security forces and displays by veteran soldiers who showed up with weapons and displayed artistry. They were all draped in the colours of the country.Also present at the event was the Deputy Prime Minister, Demeke Mekonnen and the Mayor of the Addis Ababa, Dariba Kuma. A ceremonial event launch was held by President and Speaker of the legislature aimed at raising funds for the completion of the Great Ethiopia Rennaissance Dam (GERD) project. &#8211; Africa News.