Sports Reporter DYNAMOS have moved closer to landing the services of prolific Cameroon international forward Ntouba Epoupa Christian Joel.Ntouba has been on the radar of the Harare giants since last year and sources yesterday said the 23-year-old forward is expected in the country tomorrow and could be unveiled on Monday. He has been a regular feature in the Under-20 and Under-23 Cameroon national teams in the past few years and has previously played Champions League football with Cameroonian side Astres De Douala. We have targeted a striker from Cameroon and he will be arriving in Zimbabwe on Sunday night to conclude the deal. We want to sharpen our strikeforce and we are leaving no stone unturned as we would like to reclaim our league title, said a source.Ntouba was the runner-up in the race for the Golden Boot in 2014 and was named Best Player of the Month in May and April 2016 in the First Division.He also won the Golden Boot in 2015 in the Cameroon Cup after scoring eight goals in 10 games.He has been described as a very good striker who is fast and strong and is effective with both feet.His arrival could be good news to Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa and his new assistant Biggie Zuze whose team were lacking a lethal striker.Meanwhile, Dynamos will play a friendly match against Premiership returnees Black Rhinos at Gwanzura tomorrow.Dynamos are currently on a rebuilding exercise after the core of their team was dismantled with the departure of players such as goalkeeper Tatenda Mukuruva, Godknows Murwira, Rodreck Mutuma, Stephen Alimenda, Sydney Linyama and Dominic Mukandi.Mutasa has brought in new faces like former Young Warriors winger Emmanuel Mandiranga, Gift Saunyama, Cleopas Kapupurika, Phakamani Dube, Valentine Kadonzvo, Forster Dhemere and Romario Matova.DeMbare are also assessing exciting former Bindura United and Gunners forward Quality Kangadze.Kangadze, who had just moved to Trojan Stars from Gunners, caught the eye of the DeMbare technical team in a friendly match last week and has been invited to train with the Harare giants.Dynamos acting secretary-general Graham Mafoko yesterday urged the club s supporters to rally behind Mutasa on his latest project. We are appealing to our fans to come and watch their players. We need to support our coach as he prepares a team to fight for honours in the league. We are appealing to fans, the executive and all the stakeholders to rally behind Mutasa and his team as we prepare for the 2017 season. To all those who need to watch Quality Kangadze in action we urge them to come to Gwanzura, said Mafoko.Dynamos recently signed former FC Platinum, Kaizer Chiefs and ZPC Kariba centreback Lincoln Zvasiya who can also play as defensive midfielder.Zvasiya is looking to revive his career. I am reviving my career under coach Mutasa, at one point I nearly quit soccer. I played at ZPC Kariba. Unfortunately, they were not a big team and the coverage is poor in Kariba. I want to retrace my footsteps and I hope God will help me to regain my form. Dynamos is the stepping stone if you want to make it to the elite clubs in Africa and Europe because they are a big brand. I am looking forward to help Dynamos in the quest to reclaim the league, said Zvasiya.