Scenes from previous teen workshops held by the life coachesOwn Correspondent On April 7 and 8 at the Jubilee Christian Centre from 9am-1pm, Teen Coach Tafadzwa and Jonah Mungoshi (The Success Coach) will be hosting a teenagers and a tweenies ( 10-12 year olds) workshops respectively. In response to prevailing challenges where education received by young people is not being translated to higher productivity and economic development, Teen Breakthrough programme has a strong entrepreneurial bias as well as content and processes for developing an incorruptible mindset in young people.More than 150 students are expected to take part in the workshops. Main topics to be covered at the workshop include 7 critical decisions you will have to make as a teenager , The incorruptible generation (foundations for an incorruptible life), 7 habits of happy kids and Confidence building .Since 2014 Floodtide investments has been conducting workshops for teenagers and tweenies to impart skills and success habits that help them develop an inner drive, set goals and start pursuing their life purposes at an early age. To date more than 1 000 teenagers and tweens have been trained and the feedback from both parents and the teenagers has been overwhelmingly positive.Teen and Tween Breakthrough is an innovative coaching program for children between the ages of 10 and 19 years. It is a resource for guidance and direction in a child s life management skills to empower and prepare them for the pressures, realities, heartaches and joys of adulthood.This coaching is provided through one-on-one sessions as well as workshops which are held every school holiday. The one-on-one sessions focus on the following modules: learning and study methods, career guidance, teen/parent relationships, goal setting, money management, digital literacy (how to use digital tools positively and avoid risks) as well as sensitive and complex issues such as adolescence and teen dating. Although topics vary with each workshop the content has a strong bias towards issues to do with academic excellence, entrepreneurship and life skills.The Teen Breakthrough workshops are facilitated by the award winning Success Coach- Jonah Mungoshi and Tafadzwa Musarurwa The Teen Coach, Tafadzwa is also responsible for conducting all the one-on-one coaching sessions. The facilitators believe that children are not born as empty pages were anyone can write anything but rather that each child comes with unique talents and potential already embedded in them and as coaches their role is to facilitate the development of that nascent capability they possess. The two coaches are regular guests on A-Shot-in-The-Arm, a motivational program broadcasted every Wednesday on Star-FM radio station.Based on the increasing numbers of participants as well as feedback from parents it appears the programme has been effective to date. One participant, ( Ruvarashe) who is 16 years old had this to say about the program, Your coaching has helped me to discover the hidden facts about teen life. You are a kind of person that every teen needs not to go astray, you re more than a blessing to me you lightened even my darkest night with your wise words you made things clear to me. You taught me how to handle my problems. If it wasn t you I would have gone astray thank you for directing me to the right way 