Minister ChikukwaLionel Depute and Tanaka Vunganai Government has set up a technical committee to investigate allegations by residents in Houghton Park that a private company, Steel Brands (Pvt) Ltd was emitting hazardous smoke affecting them. The technical committee comprises of the Environmental Management Agency (EMA), The National Social Security Authority (NSSA) and the city of Harare. The company is located in the New Ardbennie industrial area next to Houghton park suburb.Addressing a press conference in Harare yesterday, Minister of State for Harare Metropolitan Provincial Affairs Miriam Chikukwa said she had instructed the committee to work with the affected residents representatives. I want to inform all the concerned residents that the ministry of Industry and Commerce has set up a technical committee comprising of the Environmental Management Agency (EMA), the National Social Security Authority (NSSA), the City of Harare and my Office to address the concerns raised, she said. I have instructed the committee through my director to work with representatives of the affected residents. Minister Chikukwa said they would find a solution in order to safeguard the health of Houghton Park residents. My intention is to ensure that a lasting solution is reached and that the health and safety of the community is not compromised, she said.She assured the residents that her office would, from time to time, observe the progress of the technical committee. Let me assure the residents that my office will continue to monitor the progress of the technical committee, she said.She also advised Houghton Park residents to come up with a representative who would present their concerns to her offices. I understand there will be a stakeholder meeting by residents this weekend and l would like to urge them to elect a representative who will be responsible for bringing their concerns to the attention of my office so that they can be addressed by the technical committee said Minister Chikukwa. All those with specific concerns should address them to the director in my office Mr J. J Ndebele in writing and l can assure you that your concerns will be attended to immediately. Development, she said, must not affect the health of residents.