Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter Roderick MUTUMA made a big impression at his new base at Highlanders on Sunday as the maverick forward put up a good show which impressed the Bosso fans. The nomadic forward, who joined Bosso recently after being offloaded by Dynamos, has already told The Herald that he has never felt this loved at any of the clubs he has played for.And the lanky forward made an immediate impact by providing two assists for Prince Dube as Bosso hammered FC Platinum 3-0 at Luveve on Sunday in a ZNA Charities Shield semi-final showdown.Bosso have always found it difficult to beat the platinum miners in Bulawayo.But they ended all that with a fine show in which Mutuma received a standing ovation from the home fans after being pulled out midway in the second half.Bosso coach, Elroy Akbay, however, insists his side needs more quality players before they can challenge for the league championship.In sharp contrast, How Mine coach Kelvin Kaindu is happy with their preparations for the 2017 season after he brought on board three new players and welcomed back first-choice goalkeeper Donovan Bernard, who had gone AWOL.Kaindu, whose team is expected to do well this season after an indifferent campaign last year, said they are happy with their progress so far and his new additions will add value to his side. The former Highlanders and Triangle gaffer will be in his second year at the Metallon Gold-sponsored side.The Zambian mentor said they didn t know where Bernard was, but they have already taken some disciplinary action against the player.Bernard recently severed ties with Aces Youth Soccer Academy, who had and groomed him and The Herald understands the young goalkeeper turned down a move to join a Belgian team after having been approached by Johannesburg-based Triumph Athletic Group. I think we are progressing well as there are no injuries (in the team), but only some few knocks which I believe will heal before the season resumes. We have been working hard and as a team, everyone is reporting for duty with Donovan joining us on Saturday. He was absent and we didn t know where he was, but we are happy that he is back and we are working hard, said Kaindu.How Mine thrashed Southern Region lower division side Talen Vision 6-0. We have been taking part in several practice matches and recently we played Talen Vision and we managed to win convincingly. Our aim is to build a team that has some competitive players who will make an impact this season. We have brought Future Sibanda from Hwange, Brian Mbirimi from Triangle as well as Marvelous Mukumba from Chicken Inn, who I believe will add value to the team. I think we need the fixtures earlier for planning purposes. It is difficult to play a Premiership side not knowing when you will meet them when the season resumes. At the moment we will continue to play against Division One teams, said Kaindu.