Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE S senior women were by yesterday stuck over their departure to Mozambique for the Afrobasket qualifiers amid unconfirmed reports that South Africa had withdrawn. The team is in Bulawayo where they were finalising their preparations ahead of the competition expected to run from today until Sunday.Hosts Mozambique are the other participants and the winners from the qualifiers join Angola who have already earned their ticket to the African Championships to be held later this year.Basketball Union of Zimbabwe president Addison Chiware yesterday said there were reports that South Africa had withdrawn from the event. The ladies were supposed to leave early tomorrow (today) but we heard from other sources that South Africa has withdrawn, but we haven t got official communication. So we are still waiting for that confirmation because it changes our logistics. It s unconfirmed, so we are waiting for confirmation . . . because if they withdrew it changes our logistics because instead of playing four days, it will be just two days, said Chiware.The senior women side s coach, Erinos Katsaruware, said they are geared for the event. Our focus area really was on teamwork, like building play both on defensive and offensive. We wanted to test our players if they can play as a unit and read game situations. So far I think we are ready, said Katsaruware.Team captain Alexandra Maseko is fancying their chances. Preparations are going really well. I don t really underestimate this team at all. Basketball is a sport that can go in any one s favour on a good day. I think it s anybody s game. If we exert ourselves well, play our cards well . . . we absolutely stand a good chance, said Maseko.Maseko said being the team s captain is an honour. It s a privilege on its own to play for the national team and to lead the team it s a privilege, said Maseko.Team: Yolanda Matayataya, Geraldine Chibonda, Stabile Ngandini, Sibongile Mkandla, Melissa Majonga, Emma Makoni, Francisca Sekete, Getrude Mapiye, Dorcas Marondera, Charity Mucucuti, Margaret Kanyimo, Alexandra Maseko (captain).