Lovemore Meya Cool Lifestyle Correspondent Children from various schools who attended the 9th Annual International Education Expo Zimbabwe last Sunday at Hellenic School expressed gratitude to the organisers for bringing a variety of universities for them to choose where to go and study. The expo was held courtesy of the Global Education and it had representatives from 20 prestigious universities and 10 colleges around the globe who came to exchange notes on aspiring candidates.Some of the local schools that were represented included Chisipite Senior School, Hartman House, Sandon Academy from Gutu and among others.In an interview with Cool Lifestyle, students shared their views about the goodness of the education expos.Gareth Moyo (18) who is in Lower 6 at Sandon Academy who is majoring in science subjects, Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry said this was the opportunity he had been waiting for. I am glad that what I had been expecting to see at this expo was available like having many universities taking part such that we could choose which one to enroll with, said Moyo. This has also been an eye-opener to me because we were being guided on what to choose and what is required, for instance I want to do electrical power engineering after high school. So I was told that I must do maths, physics and chemistry in which should attain 2Bs and an A. This is going to help me study hard because I was given a hint of what is expected from me. Another student, Blessing Chazireni (17) from the same school also in Lower 6 and studying applied ICT, Geography, Business Studies and History said, The Education Expo has come to give us the brighter future or a guideline of the career path to take, exposing us to the outer world and letting one see where he or she want to be. It has also given us the opportunity to explore the type of universities to attend like the University of Law where one can study international law. Chisipite Senior School student Tawanayasha Matizanadzo (16) and in Form 5 said, I was clueless when I came here and up to now do not know what exactly the course that I will do after my high school. However, I think with what I have learnt in here will broaden my choice of a career as we have quite a number of universities offering quite a lot to people who are not yet decided. Another student who identified herself as Anesu who completed her Advanced Levels said was charmed by the number of universities that were being represented at the expo giving her variety to choose from. I passed with 13 points from my former school at High Achievers Academy and I want to study International Law at Swansea University in United Kingdom, she said.