Sports Reporter Zimbabwe National Paralympic Games received a major boost yesterday when the Sports Commission set up a fundraising committee to mobilise funds for next month s games. The annual games will be staged in Bindura from April 7 to 11. And yesterday an enlarged committee, which will be headed by Rumbidzayi Judith Kamba, was established. Kamba is the Executive Director of Zimwana Worldwide, an organisation which has been mandated to raise funds towards the successful hosting of the Games, the welfare of the athletes, raise awareness on disability challenges in general and sport in particular.Also making it onto the committee are TAF Sports managing director Tafadzwa Mapanzure, international cricket commentator Dean Duplessis, NMB Bank chief operating officer Gerald Gore, pastor Abigail Magwenzi, musician Tariro Negitare, Econet Wireless contact centre operations manager Loice Gakaka.Founder and Finance Director of ZiMwana Worldwide Lovemore Hama, RTG Corporate Communications and Innovations Manager Pride Khumbula, Linah Konde, Colleta Dewa, Enoch Kunze, Nelson Gakaka, Tirivashe Nheyembwa and Rosalia Jonga.Kamba said the committee will do their best to advance the goals of the Sports Commission and the Ministry of Sport and Recreation. I want to take this opportunity to thank the SRC for entrusting us with such a huge noble responsibility of fundraising for the 10th edition of the ZNPG. It is an honour to be part of such a historic event running under the theme of celebrating a decade of access and inclusion of Paralympic sport. We thank you for the opportunity to make a difference. As a committee we commit to do our best to advance the goals of SRC and the Ministry. We will continue needing the support and guidance in this mission. We have a committed and passionate team that is ready to push the agenda forward. The team comprises of great individuals who are passionate about charity work and have a history of having been engaged in fundraising activities before. To the corporates, the community of Zimbabwe, parents and people living with a disability when we knock on your doors please welcome us and assist us in making these games a success she said.Sports Commission acting director general Joseph Muchechetere said they believe in fruitful partnerships.In a speech read on his behalf by Director Marketing and Business Development Daniel Kuvengwa, the Sports Commission said the success of the Games will largely depend on the level of co-operation and support from the various sectors of the society. The SRC believes in fruitful and productive partnerships which are of mutual benefit and to this end, we decided to engage ZiMwana World Wide and friends on the strength of their focus on vulnerable children to include the disabled. Since we are mutual partners, the SRC will also assist Zimwana World Wide to strengthen their sport and recreation activities through various interventions such as the provision of training programmes like sports administration course, event management and others. It is not a secret that the fiscus that we used to rely on is heavily burdened and cannot fully fund the Zimbabwe National Paralympic Games and the SRC expects our partners to lead the fundraising campaign for ZNPC, assist with raising awareness on the rights of the people living with a disability, especially the young and vulnerable groups using various media platforms, he said.