Lukas PodolskiDORTMUND. Lukas Podolski signed off his Germany career in style on Wednesday night, smashing home the winning goal with his trusty left boot to seal a 1-0 international soccer friendly match victory over England. It was only fitting that the Galatasaray forward, who joins Japan s Vissel Kobe next season, should claim his 49th goal on his 130th and final international appearance. It was like in a movie, dear God gave me a strong left foot and I used it tonight, beamed Podolski. It was a great game, a great result and a great way to say goodbye. Podolski captained the world champions to their first win over old rivals England on home soil since 1987.The 31-year-old received a standing ovation in Dortmund after a pre-match presentation to mark his 13-year international career.After his winning goal lit up an otherwise dull friendly on 69 minutes, Podolski came off to more thunderous applause with six minutes to go. That gave me goosebumps to get a reception like that, added Podolski.Before kick-off England manager Gareth Southgate paid tribute to the victims of Wednesday s London terror attack and said there was no question of cancelling the match.Southgate, who took the decision to drop Manchester United star Wayne Rooney from his squad, fielded a new-look side who had the better of the Germans in the first half. I take a lot of encouragement from that despite the result, said Southgate. It s never nice to lose, but I have to be pleased with the way the players played and how the tactical system worked. I thought we were the better side up until their winning goal, that was a good learning experience for our young players who made their debuts. All that was missing was the finish to get the winning goal I felt we deserved. West Bromwich Albion s Jake Livermore came in for injured Jordan Henderson while Leicester s Jamie Vardy took Harry Kane s place up front.Gary Cahill captained the team as part of a back three while James Ward-Prowse, Nathan Redmond and Michael Keane all made their debuts for the visitors.Germany coach Joachim Loew also experimented by starting just three 2014 World Cup winners in Toni Kroos, Mats Hummels and Podolski.A fourth, Sami Khedira, dropped out hours before kick-off with a swollen ankle.Striker Timo Werner (21) earned his Germany debut after scoring 14 goals for RB Leipzig this season. AFP.