Ronald PfumbidzaiEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter RONALD Pfumbidzai s prospects of travelling to the Democratic Republic of Congo for CAPS United s clash against TP Mazembe in the first leg of the CAF Champions League group stage decider now hangs in the balance as the defender is unlikely to recover from a knee injury on time for Sunday s game. The Harare giants are expected to leave early on match day aboard a charter plane and return soon after the match.However, it appears Pfumbidzai, who has been a major concern during the preparations for the big tie, may have been dropped from the plans after missing training again yesterday.Pfumbidzai was injured in the 2-1 preliminary round aggregate win against Lioli of Lesotho at the National Sports Stadium three weeks ago.Coach Lloyd Chitembwe said he has all his registered players available except Pfumbidzai. The fitness levels are very good maybe save for Ronald who is limping. I am not 100 percent certain but chances are that he might not participate on Sunday. For the rest of the guys we are very v happy, said Chitembwe. What s driving us more is the desire to want to compete at this level of the game and also it is our dream to compete against the best in Africa. It has been quite an experience for us in our last games and obviously for the upcoming games against TP Mazembe. So I think the boys are physically, technically and tactically at the level that I personally feel they should be. I m sure it s just a football thing. We are a very competitive team and for us I think we have done well in trying to match them. This is the reason why these guys have been working very hard. They are ready to compete come Sunday, I am sure we are ready. The winner of the two-legged final will get the ticket to play in the Champions League group stage while the losing side will get another shot in the play-offs of the second tier Confederation Cup.TP Mazembe s new coach Thierry Froger has made it clear he will not be taking chances in his first game in charge of the Congolese giants in the Champions League.The Frenchman indicated that the CAF interclub competition is his priority with the Ravens apart from maintaining the dominance at home.The club s website reported that Froger has a huge task to impress early into his new job and will look to use the first round tie against CAPS United to set the tone for his tenure. March 2017 will be a transitional period of all challenges for TPM. Objectives: to fight for a new conquest of the national title and to renew with the Champions League. In Champions League last year, Ravens missed the group stage and defending their title. This year, the corrected regulations schedules the pools from the eighth. TP Mazembe are currently leading the pack in their league with 42 points and are due for the play-offs to determine then ext football champions in the vast Central Africa country. We are not going to lie to each other: Champions League is a competition for those demanding TP Mazembe supporters who want to see their club maintaining higher level on the continent. Failure to access the group stage as last year would make really bad business, read a statement on the club s website.