Lionel MessiBARCELONA. Spanish giants Barcelona have condemned FIFA s decision to impose a four-match international ban on striker Lionel Messi for verbally abusing a match official in Argentina s World Cup qualifier against Chile last week. Head coach Bauza criticised the timing of Messi s ban and Argentina are set to appeal against the ban. When the rumour began to settle, the concern began to take on more volume, he said. It seemed strange that in one day everything could be done, that we did not have time to make an appeal. We did not have time to work with someone else. Now the corresponding procedure for the appeal is being processed. Messi was dealt the suspension and a fine of 10 000 Swiss francs by FIFA s disciplinary panel and is due to miss three more of Argentina s remaining four World Cup qualifiers after sitting out Tuesday night s 2-0 loss to Bolivia.There are fears Argentina could miss the World Cup in Russia where their biggest rivals, Brazil, became the first team to qualify on Tuesday night. FC Barcelona expresses its surprise and indignation at the decision by the FIFA Disciplinary Committee to suspend Leo Messi following the FIFA World Cup qualifying fixture between Argentina and Chile, the club said. The club considers the four-match suspension imposed on the Argentine player to be unfair and totally disproportionate. Finally, FC Barcelona wishes to reiterate its support for Leo Messi, an exemplary player in terms of conduct, both on and off the pitch. The 29-year-old Messi will miss Argentina s games away to Uruguay and home to Venezuela and Peru. The five-times world player of the year will be eligible again when the country s last World Cup qualifier against Ecuador on October 10.Argentina are fifth in their World Cup qualifying group, a point behind the automatic qualification spots.The top four qualify directly for the World Cup in Russia next year and the fifth-placed side go into a playoff against a team from Oceania for another place in the global show-piece event.Brazil became the first team to qualify for the World Cup soccer finals after beating Paraguay to clinch an eighth consecutive victory.Five-time champions Brazil had been left waiting in suspense after goals from Neymar, Philippe Coutinho and Marcelo handed them a 3-0 win over the Paraguayans at Sao Paulo s Arena Corinthians.But Uruguay s upset 2-1 defeat to Peru in the day s final South American qualifier combined with other results meant Brazil are mathematically guaranteed a place at next year s finals in Russia.The qualification completes an astonishing turnaround for Brazil, who less than a year ago were in crisis after taking only nine points from six games.That run of results had left the Brazilians outside the qualifying places in sixth place. The further embarrassment of a first round exit at last year s Copa America Centenario only deepened the sense of despondency.However the sacking of former coach Dunga and the appointment of former Corinthians coach Tite was the catalyst for a Brazilian resurgence. That revival saw Brazil take maximum points from their next eight qualifying games, leaving them nine points clear on Tuesday with four games left. When I look at my family the players and when we talk to the fans and see how happy they are, that s when you think I m part of something very special, Tite said after Brazil s qualification was confirmed.Against Paraguay, Brazil were already in party mode, with Coutinho opening the scoring on 34 minutes following a deft one-two with China-based midfielder Paulinho.Neymar had a chance to make it 2-0 in the 53rd minute from the penalty spot only to see his kick saved by Anthony Silva. On 64 minutes Neymar doubled Brazil s tally, collecting the ball deep inside his own half and setting off on a surging run down the left flank.Neymar s dribble ended with him curling in a shot which took a slight deflection on its way into the Paraguayan goal. Real Madrid defender Marcelo added a late third to seal Brazil s win.Chile moved up to fourth place with a 3-1 win over Venezuela in Santiago, Arsenal star Alexis Sanchez opening the scoring with a stunning early free-kick. Esteban Paredes scored twice for Chile to give the host a 3-0 lead before Salomon Rondon pulled a goal back for Venezuela.In Quito, Real Madrid star James Rodriguez scored one goal and set up another for Juan Cuadrado as Colombia beat Ecuador 2-0. AFP/ Reuters.