Fungai Lupande Court Reporter A suspected armed robber who followed a Harare woman on her way home before shooting her car s front tyre to stop her from fleeing yesterday appeared in court. Pius Mukurumbira (50) appeared before Harare magistrate Ms Barbara Chimboza facing charges of robbery and was remanded to March 20 on bail.Mukurumbira urged the court to remove him from remand, saying the State was failing to give him a trial date. Ms Chimboza gave the State a last chance to provide Mukurumbira with a trial date.The prosecutor, Ms Audrey Chogumaira, alleged that on October 13, 2015 at around 11pm, the complainant was going home driving a Toyota IST in the company of her friends. It is alleged that when she was at her gate, she noticed two people holding a pistol and an axe, and tried to drive away after suspecting they were thieves.One of the accused allegedly fired a shot at the front right tyre, causing a puncture. The complainant stopped the vehicle and Mukurumbira together with his accomplice, Carrington Mutevera, allegedly smashed the driver s window using the axe and ordered the woman and her friends out of the car. They ordered them to lie down, while they ransacked her handbag containing $2 000 and stole the money, a cellphone and recharge cards worth $1 200. They also searched the woman s friend and stole $30 and recharge cards worth $200. It is alleged that on October 28 last year at around 7pm, Mukurumbira followed the same woman in a Nissan Serena. After noticing that she was being followed by the same people who robbed her, the woman contacted CID Homicide detectives. The police rushed to the scene and monitored Mukurumbira and his accomplices movements. The woman parked her vehicle at the intersection of 6th Street and Samora Michael Avenue in the city and disembarked, but Mutevera followed her and tried to snatch her handbag. The woman allegedly wrestled him until detectives arrived. Mukurumbira, who was driving the gate away vehicle, took off at high speed, while Mutevera tried to run away, but was arrested. Mukurumbira was apprehended later.