Emmanuel Makandiwa Doing well is something that you can learn. The scripture is telling us that you will never wake up one morning and find yourself doing well, you have to learn. Learn to do well (Isaiah 1:17) All scriptures we have in the Bible are inspired by the Holy Spirit and there are no scriptures that are more or less inspired than others. The whole Bible is the inspired word of God but what makes the scripture above more important is the fact that Isaiah was a prophet and whatever we read from his book is prophetic. Isaiah is giving us a prophecy which is like an instruction on something that we all need to do and what he is advising us to do is something that can be done.Open your eyes and look at your past, visit your previous experiences and try to remember things that went wrong in the past. Develop a desire to want to know why things went wrong. There are things that we experienced in the past that we can experience again in the future especially if we have a habit of not looking back and wanting to understand why we had such experiences.Doing well is something that you can learn. The scripture is telling us that you will never wake up one morning and find yourself doing well, you have to learn. If you ever had bad experiences in your past you will notice that every bad experience that you went through can be traced to a person you associated with that you should not have.Besides fasting food, there is another kind of fasting that is very important which, if you can consider it, you are likely to have a better future. There are associations that need to be fasted in your life. There are certain people you have to fast even for a year, highlight those people and fast them so that you can have a successful life.Any pain you have experienced in the past there is someone responsible. If you were ever discouraged before, it is because there is a voice that you listened to. Sometimes in life you do not really get discouraged by doing something wrong but by what people say. Losing someone through death is a painful experience but what is much more painful is what people will say.There are people in your life that specialise in introducing pain and discouragement. Certain people when you talk to them you lose your energy and motivation, they make you feel like you qualify for death. Anything that went wrong before, you can trace it back to a person who could be your friend, partner, relative or yourself. Whether it is a sickness or disease it could still be traced to a person who introduced it, you can go as far as Adam.If you are going to have a bright future there are people that you have to identify. If you identify those people and they have done you wrong, forgive them but that does not mean you have to trust them again. You have forgiven hundreds of people but up to now you feel like you cannot trust them anymore because you have not yet forgiven them; but, forgiving a person and trusting him are two different things. There is no scripture in the Bible that tells you to trust a person that you have forgiven. Forgive people but there are people you should never trust with your life again.When Adam sinned I personally believe that he was forgiven by God but still He could not trust him with the garden anymore. Your life is a garden full of beauty, pleasure, excitement and peace but it will remain a garden only if you know how to drive out the Adams in your life.There is an Adam everywhere you go that deserves your forgiveness but he does not qualify for your garden. He should never have a place in your garden which is your life. Adam should not have a place in your heart, your heart is your garden and that is where God plants every seed that He gives to you. There is an Adam who should not remain in your heart after he has committed a sin. Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offences contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned; and avoid them. (Romans 16:17). It is actually written in the Bible that we have to avoid certain people but before you can avoid them mark them. People that have offended you there is need for you to mark them and then avoid them.If a person is bringing division and confusion in your reasoning ability you have to mark and avoid him inorder for you to have a better life. If the Bible is encouraging you to mark certain people and avoid them, you have to move around identifying people that are causing confusion and you avoid them.Why is Paul not teaching us to pray so that we can be more powerful than those people and avoid offences? As long as you have those people you will still be offended. The best you can do to avoid offences is to avoid those people.Our theme for this year is The Year of Greater Life but for you to have greater life it is a decision you have to make right now. Greater life was there even last year but that is not what we chose. The day that Jesus was crucified greater life was made available. Having it this year does not mean that God provided it this year, we are making a decision this year to attain a life that is greater because it is a choice.But how do you choose a life that is greater if you do not know how to choose people that bring you to that level? Greater life is a choice. You can decide today to live a life that is superior and better than the one you lived the past 20 or 40 years. But the moment you decide to live a greater life there are people close to you who will see to it that you do not attain such a life. These are committed and dedicated people that specialise in bringing you down and causing you to remain in an inferior life.If you are going to be doing well this year it is because of your willingness to learn to do well. It is a very painful experience to let go of people you grew up with but it is necessary. There are things you cannot avoid, when it is time for people to walk out of your life do not fight it and do not try to stop them.It is good for them and it is also good for you. You will have people that you will dismiss but there will be people that will choose to leave you. What is going to cause them to leave you is God, He will advise them to leave you. You will realise a year later that it was good that they left.https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwahttps://twitter.com/prmakandiwahttps://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwa/Helpline: +263 4 339 341[email&#160;protected] mailto:[email&#160;protected]