LONDON. &#8211; Antonio Conte praised Eden Hazard s performance against West Ham but said the forward needs to be more ruthless in front of goal. Chelsea brushed aside London rivals West Ham United with a 2-1 away win that restored their 10-point lead at the top of the English Premier League soccer table on Monday night. The Belgium international Hazard scored Chelsea s opener, smartly finishing a devastating counter-attack.That took his tally for the season to 11 in the English Premier League, but Conte felt Hazard, who was named man-of-the-match, squandered several other opportunities at the London Stadium. Eden, like the other players, played very well, Conte told Sky Sports. My players were very good in this counter-attack, Pedro and Hazard. It was a good performance for him (Hazard), he could score more goals and I think in this situation it s important to score the first but also when you get another possibility to score a goal, you must do it. I am pleased for him, he played a very good game. Mid-table West Ham, who knocked Chelsea out of the League Cup this season when crowd trouble marred the night, offered little threat for most of the game as the west London side continued their surge towards the title.Conte s team, who have won 21 of their 27 league matches this season, have 66 points, 10 ahead of second-placed Tottenham Hotspur. Manchester City can reduce the gap to eight if they beat Stoke City tonight.Conte also reserved praise for N Golo Kante, who won possession after a West Ham free-kick to spark Chelsea s break for their first goal. N Golo is a really good player and has great stamina, the Blues boss added. He covered a lot of ground but now we are working with him to improve in playing directly for the forwards. He is improving a lot, he is a good player and also a good guy. Chelsea doubled their advantage through Diego Costa in the second half and saw out the final seconds after Manuel Lanzini fired home West Ham s consolation in stoppage time.Conte s side have not kept a clean sheet in the league since beating Hull City 2-0 at Stamford Bridge in January and the Italian was disappointed to lose another late on. I think we played a good game, he continued. We controlled the game, scored and had other chances to score more goals. It is a pity for the goal conceded at the end, to give away another clean sheet at the end of the game is not good. We must improve in this situation. &#8211; Sky Sports.