Partson JaureSports Reporter NGEZI Platinum Stars received a timely boost yesterday when first-choice goalkeeper Nelson Chadya and defender Partson Jaure recovered from injuries ahead of the team s flight to Luanda this afternoon. The duo was injured last week during a friendly match. But they were certified fit for the showdown in Angola. The Mhondoro side are scheduled to leave this afternoon for their CAF Confederation Cup first round, first leg tie on Saturday against Angolan side Clube Recreativo Desportivo do Libolo.The team was scheduled to go via South Africa before connecting to Luanda but there were reports yesterday they were contemplating chartering a plane to Angola. In the event they travel via Luanda, they are expected to then connect to the venue of their match.Ngezi delegation has more than 25 people and they have been advised the rest of the contingent would then connect on Friday. Yesterday, coach Tonderai Ndiraya said he welcomed the recovery of his two key players who form the first line of his defence. Last week we were disturbed by injuries after Nelson and Partson picked knocks during the friendly against ZPC Munyati, said Ndiraya. But we rested them and they have since recovered. They started training yesterday (Monday), they are back. But Kelvin Bulaji and Byron Madzokere are still out, they have failed to recover in time. Everyone else is fit and the final 18 will be announced after the travel arrangements have been finalised. The duo of Bulaji and Madzokere was injured during Ngezi s home game against Mauritius side Pamplemousses in the preliminary round.However, Ndiraya has a lot of depth in his squad.Ndiraya says they will not put themselves under unnecessary pressure in Angola. They (Desportivo) have lots of experience and last year they were in the Champions League which shows that they are a good side. We are told they have won the league a couple of times, they are second on the log where they have played five matches. But we don t have pressure, we are in this tournament to enjoy ourselves and learn but we are also very focussed and we will try as much as possible to contain them there. That is our game plan. We have planned accordingly and we will see how it goes. The coach said his troops have vastly improved in terms of fitness. Our major let down in the previous game was fitness. The players were a bit low on fitness levels. It is a bit tricky trying to get fit by training and playing friendly matches.