Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) may lack awareness of and interest in other children, which makes them tend to play aloneDr Sacrifice Chirisa Mental Health Matters Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a condition that affects social interaction, communication, interests and behaviour. The symptoms are present before three years of age, although a diagnosis can sometimes be made after the age of three. It is estimated that about one in every 100 people have ASD, however, more boys are diagnosed with the condition than girls. The main signs and symptoms of ASD are problems with social interaction and communication. In early infancy, some children with ASD don t babble or use other vocal sounds.Older children have problems using non-verbal behaviours to interact with others; for example, they have difficulty with eye contact, facial expressions, body language and gestures. They may give no or brief eye contact and ignore familiar or unfamiliar people.Children with ASD may also lack awareness of and interest in other children. They tend to play alone. They can find it hard to understand other people s emotions and feelings, and have difficulty starting conversations or taking part in them properly.Language development may be delayed, and a child with ASD won t compensate their lack of language or delayed language skills by using gestures (body language) or facial expressions.Children with ASD will tend to repeat words or phrases spoken by others (either immediately or later) without formulating their own language, or in parallel to developing their language skills. Some children don t demonstrate imaginative or pretend play, while others will continually repeat the same pretend play.Some children with ASD like to stick to the same routine and little changes may trigger tantrums. Some children may flap their hand or twist or flick their fingers when they re excited or upset.Others may engage in repetitive activity, such as turning light switches on and off, opening and closing doors, or lining things up.Children and young people with ASD frequently experience a range of cognitive (thinking), learning, emotional and behavioural problems. For example, they may also have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), anxiety, or depression and learning difficulties. Some features of ASD may not become noticeable until a change of situation, such as when the child starts nursery or school.See your family doctor or paediatrician who must refer to a psychiatrist if you notice any of the signs and symptoms of ASD in your child, or if you re concerned about your child s development. It can also be helpful to discuss your concerns with your child s nursery or school.The exact cause of ASD is unknown, but it s thought that several complex genetic and environmental factors are involved. There s no cure for ASD, but speech and language therapy, occupational therapy, educational support, plus a number of other interventions are available to help children and parents.Caring for ASD isn t an easy role. When you re busy responding to the needs of others, it can affect your emotional and physical energy, and make it easy to forget your own health and mental well-being.It s presence in a family can be very challenging. If you re caring for someone else, it is important to look after yourself and get as much help as possible. It s in your best interests and those of the person you care for.This month I will focus on childhood mental health issues as these are ignored and some children are being physically abused by well-meaning parents and caregivers.DISCLAIMER: This column contains information about mental health related issues. However, the information is not advice, and should not be treated as such. The writer accepts no responsibility for misuse and misrepresentation caused by the use or misunderstanding of this article. No warranties or assurances are made in relation to the safety and content of this article and attachments. Sender accepts no liability for any damage caused by or contained in any attachments. No liability is accepted for any consequences arising from this article.Dr S.M. Chirisa is a passionate mental health specialist, who holds an undergraduate medical degree and post graduate Master s degree in Psychiatry both from the University of Zimbabwe. He is a Senior Registrar in the Department of Psychiatry at Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals the current national treasurer of the Zimbabwe Medical association (ZiMA)