Increasing maize productivity per hectare is one of the major drivers for achieving food security in the countryJohn Basera and Gorden Mabuyaye Bumper Harvest Maize is a major income earner amongst farmers (small and large) and a significant contributor to the country s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).The imminent bumper harvest (which is in everybody s view this year) is likely going to result in GDP growth, food security, maize exports (not really a far-fetched dream-it s possible), decrease in import bill among other major scores for the country s economy. Reclaiming the bread basket status is no longer a pie in the sky, but rather reachable and imminent &#8211; come end of season!To the farmer, maize production is one venture with a very lucrative Return On Investment (ROI) and of course ROI is a function of Productivity and Price. In a good year like the 2016 /17 season, we are likely going to see farmers maize productivity levels increasing significantly and hence their profitability levels ultimately. It is a fact that maize production will grow this year by what margin may be arguable!And now . . .Now with the bumper harvest imminent, we need to get geared at the farm level and as a nation with regards to preparing for harvesting, marketing and storage.To the farmers, we advise them to plan ahead, prepare and harvest on time-(come in with a winter crop such as wheat and utilise the abundant land and water resources)! Thank the Mighty God for the good rains, most of the dams are filling to capacity!Increasing maize productivity per hectare is one of the major drivers for achieving food security in the country. Successful Agricultural Transformation requires three major pillars and we normally term them the trinity loop / triangular loop which involves:Germplasm (seed varieties)Resources (financial and non-financial) andKnowledge (extension)Germplasm (seed varieties)In Zimbabwe, we have some high yielding and prolific conventionally bred maize hybrids. These hybrids couple this high yielding ability with other complimentary agronomic traits like good standability, disease and heat tolerance, fast dry down rate, Water Use Efficiency (WUE), Fertiliser Use Efficiency (FUE) among other traits. The combination of high yields and good complimentary traits is a rare fit to have in agricultural systems and should be duly taken as an advantage to the farmer and the nation.ResourcesConducive climatic and soil conditions are key comparative advantagesendowed in Zimbabwe. That coupled with a very excellent highly literate human resource base, should take Zimbabwe to another level of agricultural productivity and food self sufficiency. Our water bodies have capacity to irrigate more than 2m ha and also the 2016-17 agricultural season has been more than a good year as far as rainfall is concerned. The distribution has been very good from the onset of the season. The 2016-17 season has also been reasonably funded.Knowledge and extensionAgricultural extension plays a central role in promoting productivity and ultimately food security and livelihoods through educating farmers on GAPs (Good Agronomic Practices). In our view the extension services personnel in Zimbabwe is technically aware and robust and this bumper harvest can also be partly attributed to AGRITEX teams on the ground. According to studies done by John Basera in 2016, published in the Asian Journal for Agriculture and Rural Development (AJARD), at least 90 percent of farmers in Zimbabwe receive extension services (at least three times a season). It means our farmers have all the necessary technical information on GAPs at their disposal.The above account shows that the trinity loop is the basis for assuring Food Security Autarky in Zimbabwe, this season and beyond.The ultimate goal of maize farming is not growing the crop only, but the cultivation and perfection of human beings i.e. improving peoples livelihoods and economic well being.Plan ahead and prepare for the harvestFarmers should plan for harvesting, prepare equipment early and set/calibrate machinery, packaging/bagging materials and dryers should be in place and ready. In addition, at least two full days will be needed to check machinery for proper maintenance, adjustment and safety before harvest. We advise farmers to review owner s manuals of their harvesting implements before making adjustments.Check moisture levelsHarvesting and drying can commence when the crop reaches a maximum moisture level of 20% and below. It makes an economic sense to harvest and dry a crop at this moisture level. The optimum storage moisture levels for maize grain is 12.5 percent and below.Hand harvestingBang board trailerThis is an option to farmers who cannot access combine harvesters. Cobs are loaded (by throwing) directly into a tractor drawn trailer which is fitted by a bang board. We recommend six rows to be harvested on each side of the trailer at a time. This is because workers become less accurate as the number of rows increase and forward speed is also reduced. The cobs in the two rows straddled by the tractor wheels are harvested first and heaped on the sides and loaded later.Drums/sacks and trailer:When large harvest gangs are available we can recommend the drums and trailer method. Cobs are harvested into a 25 litre container or a 25kg empty bag then emptied into a tractor/animal drawn trailer. Larger containers can also be used but two workers may reap into one container. For efficiency, two tractors and three trailers will be ideal if the gang is large. The crop (with husks) is then shelled using a tractor driven sheller.Using sacks onlySome farmers prefer reaping directly into sacks. This system is particularly useful when shelling is done in the field. The cobs are reaped into the sacks by reapers and they are emptied into tractor towedsheller. The ratio of reapers to waiter is 2: 1. Reaping can be done directly into a towedsheller. However this has proved to be inefficient in most cases as reapers may fail to match sheller rate.Mechanical harvestingCombine harvesters are mostly used and are a modern harvesting technology which comes in two types (Conventional and Rotary types). A combine harvester performs a bout of functions in a single go . . . (cutting the stalks, picking, de-husking, shelling, winnowing, blowing out chaff, cleaning the grain and loading bins/trailers for delivery).With a combine:The farmer is independent of labour hiresThere is faster rate of harvesting than with hand harvesting, so the method suits large hecterages.The machine can chop up the stoves for ploughing down and/or planting.This method works well with bulk handling operations.However:When there are problems with cob rots, there is no possibility/provision of sorting out the affected cobs.The combine cannot pick up cobs lying on the ground and as a result it will not work efficiently on lodged crops.Steep slopes, small fields and moisture content (high)of the crop affect the efficiency of the machine.The combine cannot work well in densely weeded fields.What needs to be checked on a combine harvester?Harvesting losses must not exceed 3 percent when using a combine harvester and therefore it is important for farmers to do a health check from front to back using a check list provided by experts/suppliers. Always target ZERO breakdowns during the harvesting period. A health check is critical and NOW is the right time to do it. Part of the checklist/inspection points:Fan belts, bearings (for wheels and shafts), chains, cutter bar (check all inspection points), intake auger (check all chains), winnowing fan (which blows the chaff), grain pans/sieves, augers to grain tanks, straw shredders among other points must be checked and if need be rectified, adjusted or even replaced.Factors that affect combine efficiency and reaping output. Lookout!Crop moisture levels:-Dry crop and cobs are easier to pick, de-husk and shell. A crop can be harvested below 20 percent moisture content. Moisture levels above 20 percent can compromise harvester efficiency.Row spacing: Spacing must suit the cutter bar spacing and usually ranges from 70-90cm (depending on combine make). When there is no uniformity then knocking down will result and may cause harvesting losses and increase gleaning expense bill.Cob placement and standability: A variety with good standability and average cob placement is easily and efficiently harvestable. A lodging crop is difficult to harvest with a combine and can cause harvesting and yield losses. That is the reason why we always recommend varieties with good standability and to always plant at recommended population densities.Land terrain: a well prepared and levelled (even) land is easy and less costly to harvest. Otherwise speed must be adjusted/rather reduced if terrain is not even.Combine : trailer/truck/bin ratio: we always recommend farmers to strike a good balance of combine harvesters and trucks in the field.GleaningField inspection during harvesting is always recommended. All knocked down crops and fallen cobs must be picked up by gleaning gangs. A relatively sizable gang is sent into the field to pick up the left overs following a combine harvester. The collected left overs can be shelled by a sheller or fed into a running combine.Grain dryingHarvesting when moisture content is high may necessitate drying the crop/grain to the optimum moisture level for shelling/storage. To maximise on land/irrigation utilisation, a farmer may be recommended to harvest a maize crop before reaching storable moisture level (12,5 percent). This will require drying the crop/grain which can be done naturally or artificially. With natural drying the cobs are left on the plant to dry or reaped and heaped in strips on open dry land/slabs. The cobs can also be reaped and put in cribs and left to dry to the required moisture content. Alternatively, grain is dried in bags; but this tends to be a very slow process. Normally natural drying is common when the weather is sunny.In artificial drying, the underlying concept is forcing heat through the grain .The heated air then causes moisture to evaporate from the grain. The rate of drying depends upon the temperature of drying air, velocity of the air through the grain and the uniformity of its distribution in the drying silo/chamber. Maximum temperature of drying air will depend on such factors as the type of crop to be dried, the use of the crop and the system of drying being employed.On farm maize storageMaize can be stored as bulk or bagged. The storage facility must be suited to the method of delivery. Bulk stored grain is loaded into bulk trailers/bins using augers. Bagged grain usually requires conveyors or labour for loading.Bulk storageThere are many methods that can be used for the bulk storage. Examples are: above ground silos, bulk containers and bags stored in the open or in buildings.There are a number of pros for the bulk storage method. These include:It is more economical than bag storageLess supervision is requiredLabour requirements and handling are reducedIt is more hygienic than bag storageHowever, bulk storage has some cons in that:It is costly in terms of capital outlay requirements than baggingConditions for bulk storageThe maize grain must be dry; with less than 13,5 percent moisture content.The storage facility must be structurally sound and designed for loading and offloading.The storage facility must be weather tight and dry, thermally insulated from the sun s radiation and also rodent free.The facility must be convenient for inspection, fumigation and cleaningThe facility must be provisioned to allow loading (of grain by augers) and offloading of grain (from the field)Chemical treatment for long term storageMaize in storage can be affected by many pests including: maize weevil (Sitrophilusspp), Indian meal month (Sitrotogacereale), Flour beetle (Triboliumcastaneum), Sawtoothed grain beetle (Oryzaephilussurinamensis), Lesser grain borer (Rhyzoperthadominica), Larger Grain Borer (Prostephanus truncates), Rusty grain beetle and other storage pests. These post-harvest pests can cause significant yield losses (eat into your pocket) if left uncontrolled hence we recommend the use of stored grain chemical protectants. Several options are available on the market.Always read chemical labels carefully, use safe practices and adequate protective gear during application. Always observe recommended pre-consumption intervals on the grain protectant labels.Farmers should note: Always and continuously lookout for termites which can wreck some havoc on crops at grain filling up to physiological maturity and drying stages (especially during inter-season dry spells). We recommend farmers to apply necessary chemicals (termiticides). This is to safe guard the yield and to make sure an almost seamless combine harvesting and avert sorting/grading losses.A bumper season is inevitable. A Green revolution is imminent in Zimbabwe! Plan, Prepare, Harvest on time at the right moisture levels and treat grain for good storage. Ensure minimal harvesting and post-harvest losses!About the authors: John Basera is a seasoned Agronomist and Agribusiness expert working for Seed Co as Head ofAgronomy Services. He is a PhD researcher with research interests in Agricultural Technology Adoption, Systems Dynamics and Agribusiness Modelling among others. He can be contacted on +263 772 413 184/ [email&#160;protected]Dr Gorden Mabuyaye is a world class maize breeder and Global Maize Breeding Lead at the Seed Co Group. He can be contacted on +263 772 132 [email&#160;protected]