LONDON. Do not shoot the messenger. But it is so obvious what Arsene Wenger is trying to do. He is digging in, putting his case as to why he should get a new two-year contract and claiming some fed-up fans have been brainwashed by the levels of criticism directed his way.Reaching the FA Cup semi-final is the new fourth place as Wenger set out to remind us about his remarkable record in the competition.He has won it six times in his 20-year reign, is on course for a record seventh trophy and beating little Lincoln 5-0 on Saturday night made it 11 semi-finals, one more than even Sir Alex Ferguson managed.That is unlikely to convince the growing army of discontented supporters who are making demonstrations a habit before every home game. They were outside the Emirates again on Saturday, all 200 of them.In fairness, his remarks were aimed at pundits as much as fans but clearly he does not believe his achievements are being given enough respect. The FA Cup has been Wenger s salvation in the past and he is hoping it will be so again, as he clearly wants to stay at Arsenal but knows he has to convince the fans before signing any new deal.Wenger feels the margin between success and failure never better illustrated than in the Champions League is too fine to be too harsh on Arsenal.He said: You can t live in an isolated world. When you re a footballer, even if you don t read it you re told what people think. You can t live in a world where you can t be influenced by anything. For example, I watched the last 20 minutes of PSG v Barca again. It s interesting when you see all the conclusions that come out of the game. And the same people who spoke after the game said with 10 minutes to go that PSG was absolutely outstanding. Ten minutes later, they re absolutely rubbish. People brainwash you with what they think is right. Get out of that heated atmosphere and look at things in an objective way. Sometimes it confirms what people say. Sometimes it doesn t. I managed about 2 000 games I might know a little something about the game as well. The judgments have been as brutal from Arsenal old boys such as Ray Parlour and Paul Merson as from the likes of Roy Keane.With Arsenal out of the Champions League and title race, all largely said it is time for Wenger to go, which adds fuel to the fire for the fans. And Wenger accepts the cup might not be enough to satisfy some.He said: No matter what happens in the future you will always lose games. I can t guarantee we will win all the games. We re in the semi-final of the FA Cup. How many times have we been? You have to accept nothing is good enough, you have to live with that. The importance of the game has become bigger. You can t escape any more. No matter where a player goes today it s talked about. You have so many news channels. Maybe 30 years ago, the guy who lost a game has one journalist who went with the players to the pub and had a beer after. And sometimes two and three, four, five or more. Wenger said he would love to make history by lifting the cup again, but added: At the moment we re far from that. Let s get to back to winning habits in the Premier League. We have lost some ground and have a difficult game at West Brom next. Arsenal struggled for confidence in the first half against Lincoln, and did not make the breakthrough until Theo Walcott s stoppage-time shot was deflected in.The second half became an avalanche of goals, and tough on the National League visitors. The Mirror.