Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Karate Union technical director full contact Kumbirai Musinami says preparations for the first So-Kyokushin International tournament to be held in this country in July are on course with the registered fighters training under the guidance of instructors from different styles. Zimbabwe is hoping to field 160 athletes for the tournament, taking advantage of hosting the event.Musinami said they have put in place a technical board made up of himself, So-kyokushin Union of Zimbabwe technical director Tarwireyi Muchineripi, Sharleen Amoda from shorin kempo and kyokushinkan s Brian Chiringa.Seasoned instructor Tendai Marange is also part of the board and Musinami said he will play a crucial role in overseeing their preparations considering his experience in the sport. We formed a technical board from across all our styles. Giving each other tasks, others are good on kicks, some of the techniques and others on conditioning. Our team must be strong just as much as when we go to Japan and they want to keep all the trophies so we also don t want any trophies crossing the borders. He (Marange) will play a pivotal role as the most senior official. So he will be overseeing our preparations and giving advice, said Musinami.Musinami said they are looking at having their fighters compete in as many tournaments as possible between now and early June. We will try to get in as much competition as we can between now and early June, after which we will not enter them for any competition to avoid injuries. On Saturday there was a tournament hosted by IFK in Mbare. It was part of our preparations, most of the fighters in the team took part. We were giving them a litmus test to see where we are. This weekend there is a tournament in Johannesburg and we have registered 15 fighters, Musinami said.The ZKU technical director said with 250 local and regional fighters registering for the event, the numbers have already exceeded their expectations. We didn t expect the numbers to be this much. But because it s an international tournament we have a lot of enquiries even from countries that usually do not compete. So we are looking at close to 400 fighters but as with most events some of the registered will not turn up. But still the figure is high for a one day tournament and it means we as the organisers we have to be very organised to keep the bouts flowing, said Musinami.Local Organising Committee chairperson, Likhwa Khumalo, said besides preparing the fighters, they are lining up a number of seminars for referees expected to officiate on the day. Very soon we will have a referees seminar. We are supposed to have several seminars to make sure everyone is on point, said Khumalo.Zimbabwe have been hosting the All-Africa So-kyokushin tournaments in the past two years preparing themselves for the international tournament set for July 22.Meanwhile IFK Zimbabwe branch chief, Tawanda Mufundisi said they honoured some of the senior karatekas that have played a pivotal role in the development of the sport in the country.This was done during their third Knockdown Champion of Champions tournament in Mbare recently. We paid tribute to our icons Sensei Tendai Fox Marange, Farai Ninja Maniwa and Tendayi Skunyaz Mutikani, all received gold medals. And IFK Zimbabwe karateka of the year sensei Malvern Chomusora received a trophy and a gold medal, said Mufundisi.Some of the winners at the tournament include Blessing Chakandinakira, who claimed the men s open title.Alfred Kaseke came first in the Under-80kg while Tinashe Chingwaru came out the best in the Under-70kg.Fiona Marufu won the women s competition and Jean Claude Mufundisi was crowned champion in the boys Under-30kg. The boys open title went to Justice Mutyoramwendo.