NEW DELHI. Cricket s governing body was accused yesterday of allowing the series between India and Australia to descend into anarchy after Steve Smith and Virat Kohli escaped punishment over the arch-rivals latest bust-up. Ex-players slammed the International Cricket Council for not issuing sanctions after Indian skipper Kohli accused his counterpart Smith of abusing the decision review system (DRS) during the second Test.One Australian newspaper accused the ICC of being gutless in its efforts to quell what is the latest in a series of ugly spats between Test cricket s top two sides and their captains.The trigger for the latest row came on Tuesday, when Smith was seen looking to the Australian dressing-room while considering appealing against his dismissal for lbw as Australia were going down to a 75-run defeat.The rules forbid players from consulting with anyone off the field about whether to seek a review from the umpires.Smith admitted he had been at fault, but put it down to a one-off brain-fade . But an angry Kohli said it was far from an isolated incident, suggesting it had been happening for the entire Test.That prompted a furious response from the Australian board, who said that any questioning of Smith s integrity was outrageous .India s board asked the ICC to take cognizance of Smith s admission but instead of punishing either captain, the organisation said it would bring them together for a clear-the-air meeting.There was particular anger in the Indian camp that Kohli s conduct had even been called into question, with several former players hinting at bias in the ranks of the ICC.Former Indian wicketkeeper and ex-selector Saba Karim said the ICC s statement was bizarre . Why would somebody from the ICC even talk about Virat Kohli? Karim said. He was not even involved in that incident. Virat Kohli only brought it to the notice of the umpires that this is not the first time it has happened. Former Indian opener Chetan Chauhan was similarly scathing. I am really surprised with the decision of the ICC and I am sure lot of people will be upset about it as Steve Smith s gesture was absolutely clear, Chauhan said. There is no doubt that he was asking for help from the support staff in the dressing room, which is against the rules and against the spirit of the game laid down by the ICC, and action should have been taken. AFP