Adv MudendaFarirai Machivenyika Senior Reporter Speaker of the National Assembly Advocate Jacob Mudenda on Tuesday warned legislators to initiate debate on motions they move within the stipulated time or risk them being withdrawn from the Order Paper which sets out business of the House. A number of motions from the Third Session of the Eighth Parliament that ended in July last year have had to be restored on the Order Paper after their movers failed to wind them up before the end of that session. May I remind MPs of the provisions of Standing Order 102 relating to the timelines on motions and for the movers of the motion to wind up their debate within the stipulated 21 days sitting, said Adv Mudenda. Honourable MPs are advised to wind up their motions within the stipulated time, failure of which the motion will fall away from the Order Paper and won t be reinstated. Meanwhile, Masvingo proportional representative MP Cde Yeukai Simbanegavi commended President Mugabe for the State of the Nation Address he delivered last year, saying it had set the tone for the country s development. In the SONA and also the 10-Point Plan, His Excellency indicated that Government is geared towards increased production for growth and sustainable development, she said.Cde Simbanegavi said initiatives like the Statutory Instrument No. 64 of 2016 and Command Agriculture had laid the platform for the turnaround of the economy, as reflected by rising levels of industrial production and the bumper harvest expected this year.Uzumba representative Cde Simba Mudarikwa said the President s address was premised on the need for Zimbabweans to be self-reliant. His Excellency s address created a springboard for the economy s transformation, he said. The President made mention of SI 64 and what it means is that local producers have access to the local market. We cannot have a situation where our people are economic spectators in their country. There is no country that has not protected its own market. Cde Mudarikwa commended moves to legalise the operations of small-scale miners, saying they had managed to produce 10 tonnes of gold last year.Luveve representative Cde Thandeyenkosi Mlilo also commended Government for its efforts in procuring electricity.Gokwe-Nembudziya legislator Cde Justice Mayor Wadyajena was ejected from the House after he continuously interjected Hurungwe East MP Cde Sarah Mahoka, while she was contributing on a motion to thank the President for the State of the Nation Address he delivered last year.In her remarks, Cde Mahoka urged Government to take urgent action to protect the lives of schoolchildren who were being attacked by crocodiles while crossing rivers on their way to school.Cde Wadyajena interjected, asking her to explain the kind of crocodile she was referring to, resulting in the two engaging in a heated exchange of words.Acting Speaker Cde Melody Dziva then ejected Cde Wadyajena for disrupting proceedings.