Herald Reporter Schools are increasingly benefiting from various interventions by their former students through various grouping such as aluminis or old students associations. The alumini or old students associations have spearheaded a lot of development in schools particularly in terms of infrastructure and learning materials.Some of the developments includes refurbishment of classrooms, dormitories and even the school s sporting facilities.Presbyterian High School Mhondoro Alumini vice president Mr Philemon Mangena said that the intervention of old students in their former schools is very important. We all came from somewhere and it is the grounding that we received from our former schools whether at primary or secondary level that shaped us into the people we are today. It was possible to get that grounding because the people that came before us had the vision and foresight to keep these schools running. So it s only logical that we should retrace our steps to ensure that those schools continue to thrive and impart the same values to present and future generations, he said.Mr Mangena, who leads an alumini with over 140 members scattered all over the world, said for the alumini and associations to be effective there was need for them to be well co-ordinated. Co-ordination is key because all members have to be kept in the loop on whatever is happening and what needs to be done. This will enable the group to share one common vision. For us one of our priority areas is to erect a fence around the school before we move on to other infrastructure developments. We are in the process of selling this idea to all our members and once everyone is on board we implement that is very important in these groups otherwise they become moribund within a short space of time, he said.Mr Mangena said that for the initiative to work there is also need to appreciate the diversity of ideas or gifts that the members bring to the group and leverage on those. Our Alumini recognises that while we learnt under the same roof we have followed different paths in our lives so as we continuously recruit we are mindful of the capabilities of our members because we believe everyone has a role to play and everyone should be afforded an opportunity to express themselves and contribute what they can whether financially, mentally or physically, he said.