MADRID. Real Madrid broke a 52-year-old world scoring record during their 2-1 Spanish La Liga soccer win over Real Betis on Sunday night. When Cristiano Ronaldo headed home Real s equaliser at the Bernabeu, it meant Zinedine Zidane s men have now found the net in their last 48 games.That feat incredibly breaks one of the oldest records in football as Benfica s 1963 to 1965 squad, which included legend Eusebio, went 47 consecutive games without being held goalless.In fact, the last time the Madrid outfit failed to find the net was in the first leg of their Champions League semi-final against Manchester City last April a goalless draw. Since that draw, Real have won 34 and drawn 11 of their 48 games losing just three times.Meanwhile, Real Madrid coach Zidane hailed goalkeeper Keylor Navas s contribution as the European champions leapfrogged Barcelona into top spot in the Spanish La Liga despite the latest series of blunders this season from the Costa Rican on Sunday night.Navas pulled off a stunning stoppage time save from Antonio Sarabia to secure a 2-1 win for Madrid over Real Betis.However, it was his own goal that put the visitors in front at the Bernabeu and he was also extremely lucky to avoid being sent-off after just 20 minutes. I said to him at half-time anyone can make a mistake , said Zidane.Navas appeared to chop down Darko Brasanac on the edge of the Madrid area as he raced from his goal with no covering defenders, but referee Antonio Mateu Lahoz waived play on.And just moments later Navas bundled Sarabia s shot into his own goal having appeared to have the effort under control. The most important thing for me is the support Keylor received from his teammates, added Zidane. They know how important he is and in the end he made a great save to get us the three points. Madrid were once again bailed out by headers from Cristiano Ronaldo and captain Sergio Ramos.Ronaldo levelled five minutes before half-time. And after Betis had been reduced to 10 men by Cristiano Piccini s second yellow card, centre-back Ramos powered home his 10th goal of the season from Toni Kroos s corner nine minutes from time. Victory moves Madrid two points clear of Barcelona at the top of the table and with a game in hand to come. I would be happier if we scored two or three goals at the start, said Zidane. But we remain calm because we know we can score at any moment. AFP.