MANCHESTER. Things appear to be on the up at Old Trafford. Jose Mourinho has won a trophy in his first season at Manchester United, the club are into the quarter-finals of the Europa League and they have finally managed to shake off the shackles of sixth place in the English Premier League.And while it s a case of so far, so good for the Portuguese, Mourinho will expect more progress next season as the club eye their first title since 2013.After a busy summer in the transfer market last year, Mourinho is set to continue shaping the squad in his own image.While new faces will no doubt arrive, which current squad members should be moved on this summer? And who should stay? And who is primed for a loan move? Goalkeepers David De Gea Real Madrid are the elephant in the room here, as there would be no other reason for United to get rid of the Spanish stopper than for him to return to his homeland. KEEPSergio Romero The experienced stopper ticks a lot of the boxes for a back-up keeper and there is no reason to let him go. KEEPSam Johnstone Currently on loan at Aston Villa where he has kept five clean sheets in his last six games, adding further proof that he is at the very least an excellent Championship goalkeeper. Will find it tough to establish himself in the United first-team picture though, so another loan move could beckon, unless he wants to try his luck elsewhere. LOAN OUTJoel Pereira Highly-rated at United who see a lot of potential. More minutes on loan will likely be the best for his progression. LOAN OUTDefendersEric Bailly Bought in for big money last season and despite a post AFCON dip in form, will be at Old Trafford for the forseeable. KEEPPhil Jones When fully fit, Jones has a lot to offer and should continue to be part of Mourinho s plans.Alas, his latest injury, suffered on international duty, will be another blow just when he was putting together a decent run. But it s not time to give up the ghost just yet. KEEPMarcos Rojo The Argentinian has bought into the Mourinho way which has seen an upturn in form.Last summer we ve have said sell, but has shown enough to make himself useful as a squad member this season. KEEPChris Smalling A key member of Mourinho s side and will not be going anywhere. KEEPDaley Blind The Dutchman s versatility means he is a very useful player to have about the place. KEEPLuke Shaw Is it going to happen for the England left-back under Mourinho? Probably not. The Portuguese has shown no signs of wanting the 21-year-old in his squad and a clean break might be what s best for all parties. SELLMatteo Darmian His race look to be run at Old Trafford as Mourinho s dismantling of Louis van Gall s underwhelming signings continues. SELLAxel Tuanzebe The academy prospect has been earmarked for the United first-team in a couple of years, so a loan move will do him good at this stage. LOAN OUTCameron Borthwich-Jackson After showing early promise under Van Gaal, the 20-year-old has had a trying spell on loan at Wolves this season. All part of the learning experience, but another spell away at a more wisely-chosen club will be better. LOAN OUTGuillermo Varela Had an injury-hit season out on loan at Eintracht Frankfurt and faces a tricky time to displace Antonio Valencia at right-back. SELLMidfieldersPaul Pogba Not much to debate here. While he has been criticised in some quarters, Pogba is a huge part of Mourinho s team and is here to stay. KEEPJuan Mata Everyone thought that the Spaniard would be the first man out of Old Trafford when Mourinho rocked up, but the pair get along a lot better than they did in their Chelsea days and Mata is here to stay. KEEPJesse Lingard The England winger is one of the lower-paid players in the first-team squad and is set to push for a new deal.United will want to keep the home-grown talent, if at the very least to keep Pogba company and to score goals when they get to Wembley. KEEPAdnan Januzaj Currently on loan at Sunderland, Januzaj will only have a year left on his Red Devils deal when he comes back in the summer.Has largely failed to deliver on the early promise he showed in 2013-14 and it s hard to see where he fits in. Worth cashing in, while they still can. SELLMichael Carrick Currently gearing up for a summer testimonial, Carrick s deal is up at the end of the season but another year-long extension wouldn t be the worst idea.The 35-year-old still does the business on the pitch and his influence off it is top notch. KEEPAshley Young Was the subject of Chinese interest in the winter window and is certainly expendable at Old Trafford. His current deal expires in 2018 but the Red Devils should look to get him off the books this summer. SELLAnder Herrera Very much a part of Mourinho s plans and has become a key player this season and his importance to the squad has been heightened by the departures of Morgan Schneiderlin and Bastian Schweinsteiger. Deserves a new deal. KEEPHenrikh Mkhitaryan While he s not had the debut season many hoped for so far, the Armenian has shown what he is capable of in patches.Under contract until 2020 and no reason for United to cut their losses just yet. KEEPTimothy Fosu-Mensah Highly-rated by Mourinho but still only on the edges of the first-team squad. May find some opportunities during a hectic run-in this season but a loan move could help him get some minutes under the belt next term. LOAN OUTAntonio Valencia Dependable, low maintenance and versatile, Valencia is a great player to have around. Father Time will start catching up on him at some point, but no reason to ditch him yet. KEEPMarouane Fellaini The Belgian saw his contract extended in January, so everyone s favourite Plan B will be around for at least another season. KEEPAndreas Pereira Had an excellent spell on loan at Granada and deserves a chance in the first-team next season. KEEPForwardsZlatan Ibrahimovic Another easy one. The Swede is yet to option the second year on his current Old Trafford deal and United are getting increasingly desperate for him to sign. Where would they be without his goals this season? Ibrahimovic is exactly the sort of leader the club needs. KEEPWayne Rooney The Red Devils captain s race is surely run at Old Trafford. After flirting with the idea of going to China last month, Rooney will surely seal a move away from the club in the summer after a season where he has played a bit-part under Mourinho. SELLAnthony Martial The Frenchman has not hit the heights he threatened to after an impressive start to his career at Old Trafford, but it would be far too early to give up on him. KEEPJames Wilson The 21-year-old is coming off an injury-wrecked season but still has another two years left on his Red Devils deal.A loan move would be the logical move next season as the promising striker looks to get his career back on track. LOAN OUTMarcus Rashford Another no-brainer. Of course you keep the home-grown England international who the fans love and is one of the best prospects to come out of the Carrington academy in years. KEEP