Shalom Charamba distributes fliers to motorists during the belated International Women s Day commemorationsMunyaradzi Chamalimba Business ReporterThe Herald last Saturday partnered with various corporates to sell the newspaper as well as distribute fliers. Companies who participated in the programme, which was held to mark International Women s Day include NetOne, TelOne, G-tel, Dairibord, Seed Co, Herentals Group of Schools, Getbucks, FML, Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, Bakers Inn and Food World. The programme saw local celebrities, journalists and Zimpapers staffers on Saturday experience a day in the life of a vendor when they took to the streets of Harare to sell copies of The Saturday Herald as part of the leading newspaper s belated International Women s Day commemorations.The Herald Business editor Happiness Zengeni expressed her appreciation to the companies who took part in the programme. We would like to thank our corporate partners for supporting this event as this highlights the good working relations we have with them. Special thanks to NetOne who went a step further by bringing in members of their staff to also sell the newspapers and distribute fliers with us. Gospel sensation Fungisai Zvakavapano- Mashavave recounted that the experience gave a real account of the challenges that female vendors face in trying to bring bread on the table for their families. This experience has been an eye opener. I always see these women running around selling copies of the newspaper but I did not know how challenging the job is, she said. This was also quite exciting, celebrating the hard work of women in different occupations, both vending and the print media. I learnt that the corner of Herbert Chitepo and Second Street is a busy area and it is not easy vending, running away from motorists who at times do not respect the existence or role played by these people in making sure that news gets to the people. These women are brave and put all their strength and might in making sure they are able to fend for their families. They fulfil the Shona proverb Musha Mukadzi and for that reason I salute the women and encourage them to continue exhibiting such bravery in all they do. Another gospel musician, Mathias Mhere, stationed at the corner of Glenara and Chiremba Road, relished the opportunity as it allowed him to socialise differently with people as he sold the paper. I am grateful to God for this opportunity of celebrating women and selling The Saturday Herald. I got to interact with people off the stage which they loved, mingling with them face to face on the streets, he saidActing general manager Darlick Marandure highlighted that women are a vital part of the society and they must be bold to bring about the change they want see in life. It s women s day and it s all about girl power. People say men are the heads of homes and they forget that the heads cannot do much without the necks. The women are the necks and they control the movements of the heads. Today you have shown how vital you are to the whole ecosystem called life. The theme Be bold for change reminds us of the past as generations ago girls did not go to school and someone was bold enough to say I want to educate my daughter so that she can have a better life like the guy next door. As a result, we sit here as beneficiaries of the boldness that somebody took to create a better environment for the girl child. And we would want to credit our forefathers for taking that initial bold step, he said.He went on to thank all those who participated and encouraged them to be grateful in all they do especially at their workplaces We have some who are now grandmothers and have tales of how they have educated their children through selling the newspaper. We want to thank all who participated in taking a few moments to walk on the shoes of these vendors just to experience the challenges that they face on daily basis and share the joy and the pain they go through, he saidThis is the first time such a programme has been organised in the history of Zimpapers (Pvt) Ltd, 1980 with prospects of bigger and similar events being organised in the near future.