Lloyd BlankfeinNew York. President Donald Trump campaigned on a promise of good-paying jobs for American workers. And while most of his policy ideas have yet to be realised, a handful of workers have already seen huge increases in their worth the CEOs of most of the companies in the Dow Jones industrial average.The Dow has seen a huge rally since the election, crossing the psychologically important 20 000 marker shortly after the inauguration and now within striking distance of 21 000.Collectively, the CEOs of those 30 companies have seen the value of their shares grow by $402 million, according to research company Equilar, which calculated their returns in mid-February.Below are five executives whose worth has sky-rocketed since the US election.Lloyd Blankfein, chief executive of Goldman Sachs, has seen the value of the company stock he owns grow by $159 million since November 7. He owns 2,4 million shares of Goldman, according to Equilar. With a share price increase of 36 percent since the election, the numbers stack up fast.JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon often tops the list of highest-paid bank CEOs, but only a fraction of his compensation is cash. Dimon owned 6,7 million shares of JPMorgan stock in November far and away the largest amount of any Dow 30 executives. The bank s stock has surged 29 percent since the election, making Dimon s personal share larger by a healthy $138 million.Apple has spoken out against a number of Trump administration policies, including the rollback of federal civil rights protections for transgender people and the ban on travellers from seven majority-Muslim nations, which is currently stalled in the courts. But the political climate hasn t stopped the company s stock from soaring.Jamie DimonSince election day, the value of Apple shares has risen to $136,66 a 24 percent increase. CEO Tim Cook owns just over a million of those shares, making his personal holdings bigger by $27,3 million.A year ago, Kenneth Chenault, the longtime chief executive of American Express was the subject of profiles questioning his ability to lead the company, whose stock price was in a dramatic fall. Since the election, however, American Express shares have risen an impressive 18 percent, giving a solid boost to Chenault s personal holdings. He owned just over a million American Express shares in November, and they have since appreciated in value by a cool $13,3 million.There was a time Boeing found itself the target of President Trump s tweets.As president-elect, he complained that the company s costs were out of control and threatened to cancel its Air Force One contract.They ve made up since, with the president praising Boeing s manufacturing prowess and touring the company s South Carolina factory. Boeing, in turn, is throwing its support behind GOP ideas like a 20 percent border tax.Boeing s stock has risen by 24 percent since the election, which translates into an additional $5,9 million for CEO Dennis Muilenburg, who owns just over 171 000 shares in the company. CBSnews.