Farirai Machivenyika Senior Reporter Youths should take initiatives through utilisation of land as a way of empowering themselves, Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko has said.VP Mphoko said this while officiating at a field day held at Umvukwe North farm in Mvurwi. The farm is owned by 33 year old Benedict Chagumuka. Do not just say because you are young you should inherit everything from your parents, you should have your own drive to do your own things. If you utilise land you will not go wrong because wealth is found in the soil and not going to work in South Africa, VP Mhoko said.He added that youths are the custodians of the nation and should work hard to ensure a bright future. The youths remain a large segment population with great influence on the development of this nation. The recognition of youth initiatives and their contribution to the economy remains key to the development of our nation. I commend the Ministry of Youth, Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment for recognising entrepreneurial young people like Chagumuka, he said.Mr Chagumuka planted 70 hectares of maize under the Command Agriculture programme and 50 hectares of the crop through his personal initiatives while four hectares and three hectares under tobacco and soya beans respectively.He said the crop at Mr Chagumuka s farm, showed that the country could be self-sufficient through such initiatives as Command Agriculture.VP Mhoko said empowerment initiatives created by Government had benefited over 39 385 and created 93 692 jobs. We are putting an omnibus Act that will repeal the Zimbabwe Youth Council Act. The Act will allow for the regularisation of the National Youth Service legislative framework. This will promote the creation of disciplined and patriotic young people who are able to defend the gains of the liberation struggle and contribute meaningfully to the struggle for economic independence, VP Mphoko said.Speaking at the occasion, Youth, Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment Minister Patrick Zhuwawo commended President Mugabe for leading the drive in youth empowerment. We are following what the President said in 1986 that our independence from colonialism should usher economic independence. He said the liberation war as fought by youths and therefore the fight for economic independence should also be led by youths, Minister Zhuwawo said.He thanked President Mugabe for the various inputs initiatives that benefited farmers this season.Mr Chagumuka also thanked Government for the support it rendered and advised youths to take advantage of the various empowerment initiatives to improve their lives. I thank the Government for the support I got under Command Agriculture and hope that there would be other initiatives to help us acquire farm implements. I, however, urge other youths to desist from abusing alcohol and drugs but join the various empowerment initiatives created by Government, he said.