Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS have come close to winning the Castle Lager Premiership title in the past five years and the Bulawayo giants believe they could power to victory this season. Bosso have finished runners-up on a number of occasions but they believe this could be their year. We want the championship this season and even new clubs like Yadah also want to win it and so we are not an exception, said club acting chairman Modern Ngwenya. It is likely to be a tough season, but just like everyone else, we also dream about winning the championship. We are not going to put ourselves under pressure, but the truth is that we need to bring joy to our multitude of fans but we do not want to invite pressure on our coaches and players Our wish is that after celebrating the 90th anniversary, the countdown to the centenary celebrations should start now. We must try to do our best and this season has seen us have one of our best preparations. We went to South Africa for the pre-season. We brought in players that the coach wanted and we expect him to give us the results we want. We have not given him targets as yet. Last year we wanted a top-four finish and this season we going to sit down and discuss our campaign. Bosso will be away to Bulawayo City at Barbourfields in their first match of the season this weekend.Highlanders also said they are a club without any political links and slammed those who want to associate them with any political party.Some Bosso fans chose the ZNA Charities Shield final against CAPS United at Barbourfields to display their political affiliations as they wore ZAPU T-shirts. We are apolitical and at Highlanders Football Club we do not discriminate on political affiliation or religion but what binds us together are the black-and-white colours, said Ngwenya. We denounce tribalism and hooliganism and we are not there to promote political interests. We have held roadshows and every week we always preach the same gospel during our Press conference. We also feel hard done by the fines we get because we feel some stakeholders are not feeling the pinch. The Bulawayo City Council, PSL, ZIFA, SRC and the ZRP are getting a piece of the cake and we feel they are not doing enough to stamp out hooliganism. We want cameras installed so that fans who throw missiles should be punished and the costs must be met by the stadium owners, ZIFA, PSL, ZRP and SRC because they get a percentage in every match we play. 