Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter ZIFA Eastern Region Division One soccer league will this year not include teams which are not from their jurisdiction says chairman Davison Muchena. The region, whose season is expected to begin in a fortnight, will no longer include teams from outside Mashonaland East, Manicaland and Masvingo provinces. Eastern Region will as usual have 16 teams and I am definite that we will be able to resume the new season during the second week of April. The teams have been forthcoming and most of them have affiliated which is good for us as a region, we hope to have a competitive league. After coming into office last year I noticed some irregularities which I promise we are going to deal with this season. Of late there were teams coming from Harare who would play in our league, but this is now going to be a thing of the past. We will start by correcting that and we believe our league will be vibrant. Muchena is, however, worried by some clubs who promised to join their league, but seem to be struggling and commended newcomers Bikita Minerals from Masvingo. Inasmuch as we are a development league we would not like a situation where the development between us and the Premier League is too huge. For this we would accept teams that affiliate as well as those who adhere to our constitution. We will try by all means to be professional and I am happy Bikita Minerals have come on board from Masvingo Province. The team is proving to be professional in everything they are doing they have done all the paperwork and they have their own stadium which they have renovated in preparation for the new season. If we can have teams like those in our league, it will give the development aspect, which is our league s main thrust, a big boost. We would not like a situation where we are viewed as a stepping stone into the Premier League while our province is not represented. After the promotion of Triangle we have been struggling and some provinces took advantage of that, added Muchena.The province has seen three teams confirming their desire to be part of the league, but communication is also proving to be a challenge for the administrators and clubs as they just confirmed and went quiet. We always have a challenge with these teams coming from Division Two as they are good at confirming about their availability, but go quiet. Three teams are supposed to join us and so far they are yet to show their commitment. We love teams from our region so much but at times they let us down. 