Mr MushayavanhuFBC Holdings is close to securing a $90 million loan facility for its banking division FBC Bank, which is a follow-on to a previous $60 million facility, group CEO Mr John Mushayavanhu has said. The CEO told analysts today that the $60 million syndicated loan facility that FBC Bank secured in 2014 was maturing in July and would be repaid expediently, and that the group had already moved to secure a successor facility. Once we pay the $60 million syndicated loan facility, we are actually going to get a successor facility of $90 million and the term sheets have already been processed, he said.He said the facility will largely benefit exporters. This is going mostly to be pre or post-shipment financing because we need to manage the nostro risk. If you are going borrow offshore, you must also lend to someone who is generating forex so that you don t expose yourself to foreign currency exposure. The $60 million three-year term syndicated loan facility, which is now reaching maturity was jointly arranged by Standard Chartered Bank, Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft and Investec Asset Management Proprietary Limited.The facility carried a comprehensive guarantee from African Export-Import Bank and was structured to support trade, manufacturing and key projects in the economy. That facility is maturing in July . . . July 14 to be precise. The people we loaned out that money to have repaid and that has contributed to lower the lower non-performing loans (NPLs) ratio . . . , said Mr Mushayavanhu.He highlighted that the bank s NPLs had declined in the year to December 31, 2016, and that in addition to the maturing of the $60 million facility, other contributing factors to the improved NPL ratio were a cautious approach to lending and significant write-offs that the bank had made during the period under review.In respect of financial performance for the year just ended, the group s profit after tax rose 21 percent to $21,9 million compared to $18,1 million previously, on the back of a 14 percent improvement in the group s total income, which jumped to $93 million from $81,9 million in the prior comparable period.The growth in total income was underpinned by a 22 percent rise in net interest income from $36,6 million to $44,8 million and a net fee and commission income growth of 24 percent from $20,9 million to $25,9 million. &#8211; BH24.