Ambassador MwananangaCollen Murahwa Herald Reporter Congolese Ambassador to Zimbabwe and Dean of the Diplomatic Corps Mwanapanga Mwanananga has urged Government and the corporate world to support youths in achieving their educational goals. Speaking during Africa University s 25th anniversary fundraising dinner at a local hotel last Friday, Ambassador Mwanananga said Africa s future depended on the youth. Youths are a precious gift and hold the promise of a better tomorrow and a chance for us to write our own destiny, he said Youths are our next best chance to take Africa to the decent height of success that she deserves and one tried and tested avenue to unlock the potential in our youths is education. Ambassador Mwanananga commended Africa University for making education easily accessible to all by offering scholarships to disadvantaged children. Africa University has stepped up and committed itself to making education easily accessible by increasing margins of nationalities and scholarships, he said By helping that good child that you don t even know, you are helping the continent to go higher and higher. He added that developed countries no longer have natural resources but rather rely on their human resources for development. Countries like Switzerland and Japan have no natural resources but their strength is in their people and they buy raw materials from us and make goods which they bring back to us. That is how they make their money. So by educating our people we are supporting our continent, he said.Speaking at the same occasion, the Vice Chancellor of Africa University, Professor Munashe Furusa, said more than half of the over 2 000 students from 31 countries studying at the institution are women. Because of our international focus on access to education for women, more than half of the students, that is 53 percent, are female, he said. Africa University s commitment to women empowerment in Africa is being strengthened through the girl child scholarship fund which was launched in April 2013. Africa University will be celebrating 25 years of leadership and service excellence this year. The celebrations will run from March 24 to 26.