Cde KasukuwereSophie Chese-Msowa Arts Correspondent All is in place for Mathias Mhere s album launch with Minister of Tourism and Hospitality Industry Walter Mzembi and Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister Saviour Kasukuwere expected to grace the event. The album, tiled Old Testament , will be launched on Saturday at 7Arts Theatre. Musicians Mechanic Manyeruke, Rev Togarepi Chivaviro, Fungisai Zvakavapano-Mashavave, Sabastian Magacha and Bethen Pasinawako are some of the artists who are billed to perform at the launch. In an interview, the ecstatic Mhere said all is in place for the launch saying the guests and all the musician who are set to perform have confirmed their availability.Fungisai Zvakavapano-Mashavave (file pic) I am happy that everything is going well in terms of preparations and I can safely say that the preparations are at advanced stage, he said. Both ministers Mzembi and Kasukuwere have confirmed that they are going to be with us and they will be our guests. Those who are expected to perfom have all confirmed and promised the best of performances. He also highlighted that veteran musician Zexie Manatsa who featured on one of the songs is expected to grace the launch.Mechanic Manyeruke Baba Manatsa featured on the song Dhindindi Full Time and he is going to be part of us, he said. He is optimistic that the album will take his career to another level and hopes to make an impact on the regional market. The time has come for us to release yet another album and we are optimistic that the album will bring blessings not only to us but to the people who love the word of God. Reverend ChivaviroThe 12-track album is Mhere s sixth release. Mhere has been on the rise since his hit Favour topped charts and has become one of the most active gospel artists on the local scene. Last year he launched his album Double Double at a colourful ceremony at Rainbow Towers and prominent government officials and ministers attended the event. He has promised a bigger event at the upcoming launch and said his fans should look forward to an exciting project.