Mathias Mhere (right) performs at his well-attended album launchVongai Mbara Arts Reporter Gospel musician Mathias Mhere launched his sixth album titled Old Testament at a colourful event held at the 7 Arts Theatre in Harare on Saturday.The event was graced by Cabinet ministers, Members of Parliament, mayors as well as prophets from different parts of the country to support the musician. The launch was supported by a number of local artistes such as Fungisai Zvakavapano-Mashavave, Machanic Manyeruke, Bethany Pasinawako and Sebastian Magacha among others.Radio personalities Kanyemba Bonzo and Owen Ollah 7 Madondo were the perfect duo to host the event.Minister of Tourism and Hospitality Industry Dr Walter Muzembi was the guest of honour, but failed to make it to the event and his speech was read by his deputy, Ms Anastancia Ndlovu, on his behalf. It is a great honour to join Mathias Mhere and the Saints of God in this celebration of a culmination of hard work and dedication. Music is an essential part of my life. I use music to motivate me, to uplift me, to exercise, to have fun and to get me through tough times. Last but not least, I use music to worship my Creator, said Dr Mzembi.Deputy Minister Ndlovu also read another speech on behalf of Zanu-PF Secretary for Youth Affairs Kudzanai Chipanga, who had good things to say about Mhere. I would like to congratulate you for successfully launching your sixth album. I had an opportunity to listen to all the tracks and I am touched by the way you expressed yourself, he noted.Chipanga arrived at the venue as his speech was being read and he accompanied Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Saviour Kasukuwere, who was another high-profile guest.Mhere went on stage and took the opportunity to thank the guests of honour, his family and everyone that had come to support the event. I feel blessed that I have my wife, my parents, my church members here to support me tonight. I also want to thank honourable guests who took this time out of their busy schedules to come and support me, he said.Prophets and politicians teasingly competed to outshine each other when the album was auctioned.Honourable Chipanga pledged $3 000 for the DVD while Minister Kasukuwere advised Mhere to approach his office after a pledge of a residential stand.Mhere then performed Nyasha Ndini , which sent the crowd into a frenzy.He called Bethany Pasinawako and her husband-cum-manager Lyton Ngolomi to the stage and thanked them for the production of his album. I want to thank these two for helping me on this album. We have worked together for a long time and they have been helping me from my previous albums up to now, he said.He also performed his popular songs Favour and Ndisahwira Wako Here which proved that they are still people s favourites. Full of energy, Bethany and her band took to the stage after Mhere, performing her hit song Upenyu Hwangu .She ended her performance by calling her husband Lyton on stage to do a dance routine while the crowd cheered them wildly.Evegreen gospel legend Manyeruke performed backed by Bethany and Thembalami while Fungisai and Tatenda Mahachi also had their chance to entertain the crowd.