Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis I believe this article finds you well. This is a year of restoration, a year in which all things that refused to happen must happen.Things that were stolen from us as far as six years back must be restored back, Hallelujah! Much is already happening, you are next in line!I will talk to you about one of the biggest hindrances to restoration negativity!When God says it s a year of restoration don t think the enemy will sit down and fold his hands.The enemy will come and try you. But here is advice; don t negotiate or discuss with the enemy.When the devil begins to question about restoration of your marriage, your promotion, your children, your blessing, your miracle just shut him off and say, Shut up in Jesus name! From that time forth began Jesus to shew unto his disciples, how that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day. Then Peter took him, and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord: this shall not be unto thee. But he turned, and said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan: thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men. Matthew 16:21-23In this wonderful year of the Lord s restoration; the devil will do all he can to speak you down and off your purpose.In the story above we see Jesus being rebuked by Peter off his purpose.Jesus didn t want to negotiate with the devil when he sensed that it was no longer Peter talking but the devil influencing Peter.The key to shutting off negativity in your life is to know when the devil is talking.You may be talking to very good people but quickly know when it s no longer them talking but now the devil trying to influence you.Negativity is everywhere right now and it is a huge hindrance to restoration.What is negative talk? It is anything that is contrary to the plan and purpose of God over your life and seeks to set you off course.Had Jesus listened to Peter he would have shipwrecked his destiny and man would never have been restored into relationship with God.But we thank God for our Victorious Lord and King, Jesus!The devil through positive but negative talk tried to scoop the Master from God s plan.Be careful of negativity that comes wrapped in positive, sweet or caring-like words.No-matter how sweet or caring words maybe if they are negative they are negative don t accept them.Shut them off your mind immediately.When you are at work and other colleagues begin to make fun of your spouse commenting, he or she is good for nothing, and below your standard. Don t entertain such talk. It s not praise they are giving you, its poison.They are destroying your family, shut off such talk.They were not there when you met your spouse.God s Word teaches what God has joined let no man put asunder!You see negative talk doesn t emerge out of the blue, it often comes with messenger.People will ask Are things well with you? Before you quickly divulge and talk about your life, church, family or finances you should say Let s hear about you first? If they say, things are tight, you should say, Everything is fine in my life. Be wise and careful in conversations, be it at work, in the house or in the bus going home.Shut off negativity, it drains the power of God.When the devil through Peter began to smooth talk Jesus; trying to stop him from dying on the cross immediately he said, Get thee behind me Satan! He didn t wait, reason with the devil or try to negotiate, he cut him off and shut him up.The key to stop negativity in your life is to quickly shut it off. Don t entertain it.It may appear anti-social yet it will preserve your life and destiny. It will ensure your restoration.However, at times the enemy will not come through other people but will whisper in your thoughts.How do you handle the negativity if it is not from outside but springing right from your own mind you are alone? Let me give you a weapon.At such instances don t hesitate to open your mouth alone in your house and say, Shut up devil in Jesus name. It s allowed to talk alone in times like these. Don t just sulk and eat the negativity of the devil, you have a mouth, fight back.When doubt and negativity knocks on your door, ignore it.Stand on the Word of God. Say to yourself, I know that I know that things are going to get better.Understand that your mind is the battleground. Be careful of what you entertain in your mind. Talk to yourself aloud, talk the Word of God! Say to yourself by the stripes of the Lord I m healed O hallelujah!Don t be in your office and begin envision yourself in a coffin dying this year due to charms used against you!No no, David said I will not die but live to declare the goodness of the Lord! Shut off negativity with the Word of God! For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27.