Tariro neGitareVongai Mbara and Sophia Chese Lifestyle Reporters Like they say, a flock has a greater flying range in formation than a single bird would have on its own.Women have since moved from individual work to round tables where they share ideas and empower each other. Since the advent of round tables and high teas, women now have an opportunity to learn from a better source than a book, video, brochure or salesperson.In a round table, women are now learning from the best sources of all because an expert is invited and shares information while all questions raised are answered.High teas and round tables are ways for women to gather for fellowship and empowerment.A round table is a facilitated discussion that gives each participant the maximum amount of group input on a given subject of common interest. It is important for women to know who they are and what they stand for. This was said during a women s high tea, hosted by Londiwe Shangase under the theme I am .Women are raising awareness around new initiatives that they are taking to help their female counterparts achieve their goals and feel empowered.The concept of women helping other women is benefiting both parties, while demonstrating just how powerful a force females can be when they support one another.Mercy Mushaninga benefited from round tablesFacebook executive and Founder of LeanIn.Org, Sheryl Sandberg, recently launched Together Women Can, a new campaign aimed at encouraging women to be mentors and powerful allies for other women in the workplace.During her exclusive interview with ABC news, Sandberg mentioned that there are small changes that can be made in the workplace that will allow women to help their female counterparts. I have always had a passion to empower young black women because I believe ordinary women can do extraordinary things. All we need is empowerment, encouragement and motivation. Instead of fighting one another we need to stand united, she said.High teas are usually the places where women dress up in their elegant outfits, high heels and stylish hats.These round tables cater for every woman s needs, from sharing ideas, funding each other, financial coaching, fashion lessons and a whole lot of things that women may find interesting.Both individuals and organisations are benefiting from round tables.Sylvia Sanyanga is the founder of Women s BreakfastFor organisations with a national or international membership, regional round tables are a marvellous way for people with similar roles and interests to meet and share their successes and work together on solutions to common challenges.Many women have indeed been empowered and achieved a lot from these round tables and most women that are participating on such platforms locally have good things to say.A 34-year-old woman from Budiriro, Diana Kurimaseri who has a poultry project attributes her success to the round table that she is part of. These round tables are very helpful. Before I joined WeCan project, I was just sitting at home crying that things were not well for me. I did not know what to do but when I joined them, they helped me come up with a business idea. I went for lessons on how to manage my business and now I am enjoying the fruits, she saidThe single mother of three has enrolled her kids in a boarding school, now owns a car and is in the process of extending her house in Budiriro. Thank God for these round tables, now all my kids are in good schools and I am building my house which I never thought I would be able to do, said Diana.Even some influential women in Zimbabwe appreciate these round tables.Former model and executive director of Miss Curvy, Mercy Mushaninga also said round tables are helping her to have financial peace. Round tables are indeed empowering women. I have benefited and in my group, we do grocery rounds so I never stress about groceries in my house. I know that it is all covered and sorted, said Mercy.However, she also shared that she was once a victim of dishonest people who disappeared with her money. I have been cheated before and the problem was I did not have profiles of the people I was working with. We gave them our money and they disappeared. It is important to have the profiles of people you are working with first so that you don t regret in the end, she said.Gospel diva Fungisai Zvakavapano Mashavave said round tables are helpful although people should be cautious and know who they are dealing with before it is too late. Personally I have never participated in round tables but I have seen a lot of women that have benefited a lot from them. However, it is all about honesty. I think round tables are good but the challenge comes when you deal with dishonest and greedy people who can disappear with people s belongings, said Fungisai.Although Barbra Chikosa of Red Rose has an open mind about the platforms, she stressed that round tables that involve money are very risky as people can be dishonest. Many people have complained about losing their money through these round tables. I think if the aim is to empower each other financially, then money should be raised and shared all at once rather than taking turns to give each other money. Some as soon as they get their money, they will disappear, she said.Many women locally have benefited from the round tables. They are a platform for information empowerment and they are also sources of income.It was with this idea of empowering women that Sylvia Sanyanga came up with another concept known as Women s Breakfast.As people celebrate the women s month, this publication tracked and spoke to Sanyanga who has been through a lot after her child was diagnosed by a life-threatening disease called plastic anaemia in 2013.The disease could not be cured in Zimbabwe and the only option she had was to take the child Natasha Sanyanga for regular blood transfusions.They were told that their child would only get help in India but the money that was needed was too high. They needed at least $100 000 and a fundraising was organised to raise the money.Fortunately the money was raised and she had a successful operation in India where her little brother donated his kidney to her.As if that was not enough, Sylvia had another child who was born disabled and had to undergo several operations but fortunately all the operations were successful and the two-year old boy is fine now.It is against this background that Sylvia has decided to come with a programme that empowers, inspires and gives women the zeal to go on with life no matter the situations they face.Women s Breakfast is an initiative meant to give room for women to have time to appreciate and celebrate themselves.The Women s Breakfast is being held on the first Saturday of every month and there will be a motivational speaker who will speak to the women teaching and encouraging themselves to become responsible citizens of the country.In an interview, Sylvia said the idea is to have a platform to empower women. We host a ladies breakfast every first Saturday of the month. The idea is to have a platform to empower, inspire and motivate ladies. We also want them to take time away from their hectic schedules each month to refresh and do something for themselves, she said.She highlighted that women are always busy taking care of other people and they end up forgetting themselves therefore the need for them to go out and have their own time. Women are always so busy taking care of everyone else. We all know every lady needs some me time . She said the concept will have one speaker who will share an inspirational story so that the women will feel inspired and elevated The concept is, we have one speaker who shares an inspirational story, an entertainer who performs, lots of good food and a networking session after the breakfast, she said.She highlighted that since they started they have been receiving positive feedback something that has inspired her to keep on with the initiative, she said. We have received very good feedback from the ladies that have attended with some of them describing the experience as life changing, she said.She said during the Women Breakfast the women will be also entertained by different musician. The musicians ensure that the women attending have a refreshing and enjoyable experience and also empower them through their music. To date we have had Prudence Katomeni, who performed at the first Women s Breakfast and Tariro NeGitare who performed recently to support Dudu Manhenga. We also had an upcoming musician Praise who also put up a good performance, she said.The recent Women s breakfast saw Dudu being the speaker and she shared her difficult moment in life, the time she was incarcerated for culpable homicide and for driving with a learners licence without supervision.Her story inspired a lot of women who attended and encouraged them to face whatever harsh reality when it knocks on their door.