Innocent Choga Fitness Column In the dark ages there was a movement that was linked with early Christians called Asceticism. This movement along with another movement called Scholasticism abhorred physical activity. They did not allow their institutions to be associated with physical activities. They rightly believed in spiritual superiority and wrongly regarded the body as evil. They punished the bodies by subjecting them to hard conditions, which actually destroyed their body systems thereby resulting in illnesses.Scholasticism held the belief that the mental and intellectual aspects of a human being were more important and essential than the physical aspect which they regarded as unimportant and unnecessary. To a certain extent and in different ways these attitudes and practices still exist.Recently I came across an article in a Christian pamphlet that bemoaned the prevailing Western attitudes towards physiques.Somehow when taking some so-called fitness practices that are happening into consideration this view is justified. Over emphasis on the cosmetic fitness aspect can lead to the abuse of the body and disregard of health. My interpretation of the article is that, the writer is calling for a healthy balanced view that puts more emphasis on the spiritual aspect, a sound mind and modest consideration of the physical being.I consulted to two pastors who are fitness enthusiasts whom I asked to explain the Christian perspective towards exercise and the vanity trap. Pastor Naison Masaka is a member of the New Life Covenant Church that is headed by Bishop Tudor Bismark. Pastor Masaka was head of the Health and Fitness section in the men s Kings Fellowship since 2013 but he has taken sabbatical leave because of commitments. I have known Pastor Masaka and his older brother Fungayi (who introduced him to the gym) from way back since he started exercising at the now defunct City Health Gym 23 years ago.When I met him sometime last year after a very long time he surprised me with two issues. First that he had left his profession and is now a pastor and a fitness consultant. Secondly that he married one young (then) lady Nellie whom we used to see exercising at the gym at that time and they now have two children a girl Tinotenda (11) and a boy Tinashe (9).Pastor Lysias Last Sithole is the Founder of Throne of Grace Ministries and is based in Botswana. He has been in the game for over twenty years as a competitor and a trainer. He has worked with many bodybuilding and strength champions in Botswana. He has won the Botswana Bodybuilding Championship three times and placed sixth at the WPF World Championships.Pastor Naison Masaka says; There is nothing wrong with a Christian exercising. In fact the Bible is clear that we are to take good care of our bodies (1 Corinthians 6:19-20). Some of us need more education on fitness, just like the Bible says some will die because of lack of knowledge. The Bible actually talks, teaches and encourages us to exercise. We have invited fitness consultants to talk about the importance of exercise in our group. Pastor Masaka says a brief survey of some members of his church with whom he has held consultations has revealed that close to 150 members had responded positively but he lamented; What is shocking is that in most cases those who have started exercising are not the ones who need exercise the most. It is actually scary at times to see a 30- year-old individual in a 65-year-old body. He gave an example of one extremely obese sister who went to a pastor for prayers so that she could get married.The pastor advised her to look after herself by exercising and eating well. She followed his advice and now she has been happily married for a long time. It was not because she was short of suitors, but she was too conscious of her weight and lacked confidence.It is ironic that people pray to have high blood pressure that is plaguing them to disappear when they are obese, yet they do not exercise and the pantries at home are full of calorie-laden foods that they are looking forward to enjoying after the church sessions.One would rather pray for the willpower to avoid these foods and also pray for the strength to exercise. It is understandable that some people have no inclination to work hard physically but that does not mean those who exercise are evil. Exercise is necessary no matter how little one can do and in whatever form be it running, dancing etc. At the same time, the Bible warns against vanity (1 Samuel 16:17; Proverbs 31:30; 1 Peter 3: 3-4). The goal of exercising should be to improve our physical health so that we will possess more physical energy that we can devote to spiritual goals and not to view ourselves as objects. According to Pastor Sithole God has forbidden us to eat fat junk food Lev 7 v 23. If our body composition becomes predominantly fat we become weak and lethargic. God wants us to be fit and strong. The Bible has likened Christianity to athletes in a competition (1 Cor 9 v 24, 2 Tim 2v 5). How could the Bible liken us to something that is evil? The Bible says we must bring our bodies to subjection the way a boxer charges against his opponent (1 Cor 9 v 26).Rigorous exercises tames your body such that the body does not control the mind but the mind controls the body. There are many medical conditions, diseases, sicknesses that are a result of passive lifestyles and bad eating habits. It is not every problem that needs prayer and fasting to disappear, some afflictions are due to a wrong approach in life.He says; The Bible is our manual, every instruction and commandment must be strictly and continuously followed and God has commanded us to be strong, not only in faith but also in the mind and the mortal body. We should exercise hard so that we become spiritual and physical giants .These experts say we all have a natural inbuilt sense of appreciating aesthetic physical beauty, but when our attitudes are unbalanced in favour of cosmetic fitness to the point where this focus on the body is aligned with sexuality; viewing ourselves not in an athletic manner but as objects. This becomes superficial and vain.Just like the Christians in the Dark ages who punished their bodies, we are punishing our bodies with too much weight and by striving by all means to attain the bodies being modelled as ideal we are using unorthodox ways; over dieting, abusing steroids and needlessly resorting to plastic surgeries etc.These are said to cause anxiety and depression to abusers .Those who seemingly fail to attain the ideal physique or are not satisfied with results are also said to suffer from anxiety, self disgust, eating disorders, low self-esteem, and depression . It is like jumping from a frying pan into the fire. Natural exercise will boost one s image regardless of their size and looks. It will improve the body composition.Pastor Sithole advises that one should operate from the spiritual dimension as This arouses a mental awareness of who you are and the nature of your relationship with the Almighty will therefore force you to act and react accordingly. There is need to maintain balance and a healthy attitude toward the health and fitness dimensions the spiritual, mental, physical, emotional and social. Interestingly experts have added two more environmental and occupational. This balance is said to make the difference between happiness and unhappiness and our ability to work efficiently and effectively.The Bible encourages us to be diligent, work hard in whatever we are talented in and whatever capacity we work in. Whether we are working for someone or for ourselves, we are to work as if we are working for the Almighty. Now if exercise enables us to increase our capacity to do things; if it gives us energy to work to the maximum, then it is the right prescription for hard work.&nbsp;Innocent Choga is a six time National Bodybuilding Champion with international experience. He is studying for a science degree in Physical Education and Sport. Email:[email&#160;protected]&nbsp;