Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter NTOUBA Epoupa Christian Joel seems to be getting along well with his new Dynamos teammates, with the 23-year old Cameroonian keen to make an impression in his first season in the Castle Lager Premiership. The former Cameroon youth international, who is still trying to overcome the language barrier caused by his Francophone background, has been using mostly signs to communicate effectively with his teammates on the field.English is still foreign to him but he has been learning the vernacular language fast and can utter a few Shona words which he has grasped from his colleagues.Ntouba has promised his teammates that the Golden Boot winner could come from Dynamos this year.He has been tipped to be the solution to Dynamos scoring problems and his manager Gilbert Sengwe is confident ahead of the start of the new season, which kicks off when they host FC Platinum at the National Sports Stadium this Sunday. Sengwe said Ntouba did not hesitate to come to Dynamos, knowing the profile of the club on the African continent.His immediate target is the Golden Boot. He has promised to score goals for the club and if possible to be the top goal scorer in the PSL, said Sengwe. Dynamos is a powerhouse in Africa, well-known in most African countries. He watched them when they played Coton Sport last time in Cameroon although he was still young. He even appreciated that Zimbabwe soccer is on the rise after he watched CAPS United knock out TP Mazembe at the National Sports Sports Stadium, said Sengwe.Ntouba, who has played for FC Renaissance, Club Astres De Douala back home before being loaned to Belarus side Ganit, has also featured for the Cameroon Under-20 and Under-23 sides. Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa said the forward is keen to use his stint in Zimbabwe to boost his international career.Mutasa said Ntouba is the real deal after monitoring his moves in the past two weeks. He already had an idea about Dynamos, that we are the biggest team in Zimbabwe and that we have a huge following. He is a kind of player that is eager to play at the highest level, playing in front of big crowds field and Dynamos being Dynamos, he knows the history of the club from where he was, you know with this technology, said Mutasa. Obviously, he wants to revive his career and is saying if I do well in Dynamos colours, then I even have opportunities to go a step further. So we expect the maximum from him. I like the fact that there is maturity in him. He has got some elements that I feel I don t need to disclose to our opponents as of now. But what I can say is he has some qualities that we were missing of late and I m sure he ll come in handy. He will play his part, you know football is division of labour and everyone has to play his part. The way he plays; he is an experienced player and he conducts himself as a mature player and that s the kind of dimension we really needed upfront to try and enhance the performance of the youngsters that we have in that department. They will learn one or two things from him. The idea of us getting him here is that we know the kind of contribution he will give to the team. If you look at the games that we played last weekend in Mutare, he was instrumental as he created all the three goals and for us it was a good performance. I am happy he is getting along with the boys. Football has a universal language. We are coping, he now knows a bit of Shona as well through the interactions that he has been having with his teammates. These youngsters have welcomed him and they have made him feel at home, said Mutasa.