Herald Reporters War veterans say Mr Christopher Mutsvangwa and his gang of renegades purporting to be fighting for the cause of freedom fighters are in fact pursuing a long standing evil agenda aimed at destabilising the Government. They said Mr Mutsvangwa had no clear liberation war credentials and at one point was arrested during the war in Nampua, Mozambique for his rebellious tendencies.Last year he was expelled from Zanu-PF for bringing the name of the party into disrepute and for gross insubordination.Last week Mr Mutsvangwa tried to hoodwink unsuspecting freedom fighters across the country to attend a dubious meeting he claimed would be addressed by President Mugabe.War veteran and Manicaland Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Mandi Chimene said there was nothing new in what Mr Mutsvangwa was doing as he was exhibiting his true colours as a rebel.She said most people failed to understand her when she and other war veterans passed a vote-of-no-confidence in Mr Mutsvangwa and members of his executive. She said it was now clear to all that he was up to no good. As I always said, these people have a hidden agenda. I am happy that people can now see for themselves and this is the reason why we passed a vote-of-no-confidence in him a long time ago, she said. As war veterans, we will not be shaken by people who decide to jump from the train before they reach their destinations. They are not the locomotive and the train will continue moving without them on board. The war credentials (Mutsvangwa s) are even questionable and ask them where they operated during the war or to simply give you his autobiography. Cde Chimene said Mr Mutsvangwa and his cabal wanted to use war veterans for self aggrandisement.Said Cde Chimene: I urge all Cdes out there not to be hoodwinked by these power hungry people. I have received numerous calls from the Cdes asking me about this Mutsvangwa meeting and I told them that there is nothing like that. We have a ministry that coordinates our programmes and we have our patron President Mugabe who always guides us. Another war veteran who refused to be named said: Remember Mutsvangwa has always been a rebel. He was a member of the Vashandi group that rebelled during the liberation struggle and was detained, only to be released at independence in 1980. The problem that Mr Mutsvangwa is making is that of trying to use war veterans to fight his personal wars with some Zanu-PF members like Cdes Saviour Kasukuwere and Jonathan Moyo. Mr Mutsvangwa last week called a Press conference in Harare where he all but attacked the Zanu-PF leadership and Government.He said he was fighting for the improvement of the livelihoods of all Zimbabweans, whom he claimed were suffering under the Zanu-PF Government.