THE TIES THAT BIND . . . People must cherish the legacy of unity that Father Zimbabwe left for Zimbabweans instead of fomenting tribalism for political expediencyJohn Sigauke Correspondent THE 21st February Movement celebrations have come and gone, leaving some misguided secessionists elements with eggs on their faces.Prior to the annual event that marked the 93rd birthday of revolutionary icon and African statesman President Mugabe, Mthwakazi had attempted to incite the people of Matabeleland South, Matobo in particular, which was the venue of the celebrations, to boycott the commemorations and demonstrate against same. The call was inspired by narrow-mindedness and tribal drive. The people of Matabeleland South please go and demonstrate near the birthday bash venue at Matobo, wrote Mthwakazi in a Press statement prior to the celebrations.Indeed, people of Matabeleland South went to the bash but not to demonstrate but to celebrate the birthday of their iconic leader.It is interesting that not even a single person heeded that divisive and mischievous call from people who want to see Matabeleland and Midlands regions breakaway from unitary Zimbabwe.What was even more exciting was that even the authors and architects of the boycott and demonstration did not heed their own call.Probably after second thoughts, they realised that the call was unnecessary. After spending a month urging people to boycott and demonstrate, Mthwakazi and other like-minded people must now realise that they will never be successful in dividing Zimbabweans.Perhaps money was expended in that futile project and the benefactors of Mthwakazi must now be conscious that they are pouring money into a bottomless pit.Zimbabweans will never be divided on tribal lines.As early as last Friday, villagers from Matobo were already at the venue waiting for the grand birthday celebrations of their icon the following day.Some of them endured long distances where they crossed flooded rivers, risking their lives just to be part of the historic celebrations.According to the villagers, as portrayed in interviews with some of them, the day is a worthy cause that must be respected by every Zimbabwean. We feel honoured as residents of this area to host such a grand occasion. We wish this event could be hosted again in this area. Of course there are people who don t want to see good things happening in this country but a sane Zimbabwean will not pay attention to nonsense such as a call to boycott or demonstrate against a noble function like this. The Gukurahundi issue is a closed chapter which we should only remember as part of our history. Dwelling on the issue of Gukurahundi for eternity, as it seems to be the agenda of certain people, will sidetrack us as a nation from focussing on our developmental needs. Imagine my brother that the child who was born during the tail of the disturbances is now in his or her mid thirties. Do you think this discourse helps him or her in any way? No ways, emotionally said Kholwani Nkala, a local businessman.The secessionists have been misleading ordinary citizens from the Matabeleland and Midlands regions that they are being marginalised. Some of the people from these regions who later had opportunities to visit other regions had to change their perceptions.Many a time, some ended up admitting that their area was far much better. Even if one goes to Zvimba District where the President hails from, they will be surprised to see that it is an area that is not different from any other area in Matabeleland region or anywhere else in Zimbabwe. So the issue of marginalisation is being raised by people who have not been to other parts of the nation.President Mugabe s Government is an ethically and tribally sensitive administration.He makes sure that every region is fairly represented in Government to the extent that regional balancing takes precedence over merit in the appointment of Government officials.One of the vice-presidents comes from the Matabeleland region and that post has been reserved for that region ever since the Unity Accord was signed on December 22 1987.This set-up does not exist in other political parties. For example, the MDC-T has four members in its presidium but only one comes from Matabeleland region.There are many Government ministers who come from Matabeleland region, some of whom are entrusted with very critical portfolios. So the issue of marginalisation is inconsequential.People must cherish the legacy of unity that Father Zimbabwe left for Zimbabweans.His dream was to see the people of Zimbabwe united notwithstanding their tribal and ethnic differences.It would be a show of great respect if people treasured the legacy that Father Zimbabwe left for this country.He signed the Unity Accord and nobody can reverse it unless the man himself resurrects and rescinds his signature.The Unity Accord is like a will that can only be changed by its writer.Someone who does not have his signature on the Unity Accord is not qualified to change it.Even the likes of Dumiso Dabengwa who claim that they have revived ZAPU, are day dreaming. The only authentic Zapu was the one that Dr Nkomo led and that ceased to exist in 1987 when the Unity Accord was signed.