Dr Killer Zivhu (right) hands over bags of cement to Maramba Primary School Development Committee deputy chairman Mr Albert Makera (left) in Chivi on Fiday. Picture by Munyaradzi ChamalimbaHerald Reporter The Killer Zivhu Foundation has donated 200 bags of cement for brick moulding to help rebuild Maramba Primary School in Chivi, which was partly destroyed by rains induced by Cyclone Dineo last week. Children at the school, which is in Chivi North, are taking lessons outside after almost all their classrooms were condemned following the heavy rains.Founder of the Killer Zivhu Foundation, Dr Killer Zivhu, who is also the Chivi Rural District Council chairperson, said the rebuilding of the school would be done under the Village Zim-Asset concept.This will include the community getting involved in the work, including offering free labour and other resources needed to bring the school back to normal. The buildings at the school are generally old as they were built in 1946, said Dr Zivhu. The classrooms have become dangerous to the children, and that is why it has become a cause for concern to us. We are saying to the parents, let us sacrifice for our progress and development. We expect parents to be heavily involved and these bags of cement will go a long way to ensure that the bricks are there. Those with building skills will be asked to provide them and this is all in the spirit of Village Zim-Asset. Dr Zivhu popularised the concept of Village Zim-Asset in which communities take it upon themselves to implement the provision of the economic blueprint at their local level.He urged Zimbabweans to take Zim-Asset seriously and play their part to complement Government in bringing development to their areas.Dr Zivhu said the help he was giving to many other institutions and people was being inspired by the life and character of President Mugabe, who sacrificed all for others. What the President and all those who went to war did was a commitment for lifetime benefits to the generations to come, he said.Dr Zivhu urged those who profess to love President Mugabe to show it by becoming involved in work that brings progress to their communities. Instead of making noise, if you are really Zanu-PF and you love President Mugabe, go out there and show it by working for the President in assisting people, he said. Do the work at hand, rather than just make noise without any tangible action to work for the people. Help the orphans, help the disadvantaged children go to school and help bring infrastructure to the people. Dr Zivhu said First Lady Amai Grace Mugabe was a leading light in helping the disadvantaged and her work should be complemented.The First Lady runs a home for disadvantaged children in Mazowe, while she has assisted several disadvantaged children throughout the country.Inspired by Amai Mugabe s work, Dr Zivhu founded the Killer Zivhu Foundation, which is assisting people throughout the country in various ways.Only one block of classrooms is safe for use at Maramba Primary School, while the others were condemned due to the damage caused by the rains.One of the blocks lost its roof to strong winds, with the others nearing collapse after being socked by the rains.The flood situation was particularly bad in Chivi where a number of homes, bridges and schools were affected.