Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter ZIFA Referees Committee vice-chairman Gladmore Muzambi has urged referees to shun corruption in football and has given assurance that the match officials will maintain a zero tolerance on match-fixing. Speaking at the National University of Science Technology after a three-day seminar, Muzambi feels this season should be exciting and satisfying to the sponsors, teams, fans and all stakeholders through top-notch match officiating. We had a presentation on match-fixing from FIFA and we are going to maintain a zero tolerance on corruption. We have advised our referees on the three R s and that is Recognise, Resist and Report. We have put a lot of effort in educating the referees on match-fixing and punishing them. Teams are not putting enough effort to dissuade themselves from approaching referees. All we want now is for the teams to be punished as well for offering bribes. They must also face the music if we are going to stop the rot, said Muzambi.The gruelling course saw eight referees falling by the wayside as they failed to complete the fitness tests in the stipulated time with one of them having to be whisked to hospital. Lazarus Dirwai, Jimmy Makwanda, Happy Mabhena Joel Mangweva, Tafirei Phiri, Munyaradzi Majoni, Artwell Mazire and Tambudzai Tavengwa failed the fitness test.List of attendants:Referees: N. Matemera, R Ruzive, N Musundire, J Masimira, P Chadya, P Ncube, T Sibanda, A Basvi, H Ndazi, A Ncube, B Chimene, T Massa, T Bamala, N Nduna, C. Zigwati , M. Chiwandire, T. Matenga, B. Bonomali, M. Mupfumbati, T. Marange, B. Moyo, Z. Nkomo, H. Mabhena, B. Makeka, L. Lita, P. Kalota, L. Zimondi, L. Dika, EMucharambeyi, B. Wagoneka.Women: K. Majo, T. Nyahuye, S. Taruvinga, C. Simango, F. MloyiAssistant Refs: T. Mutengwa, L. Mhara, V. Kambadzo, C. Muringai, C. Chihumburi, B. Gadzikwa, W. Mazambani, A. Muzorori, B. Nyika, S. Ncube, P. Simutenda, O. Bumhe, M. Ncube, B. Sibanda, B. Matenga, T. Kusosa, E. Rumeck, V. Muroiwa, A. Parehwa, T. Nkala, K. Kanzvimbo, A. Mhanda, N. Dhlamini, T. Chivhanga, M. Ncube, M. Mathuthu, V. Zulu, E. Mugwagwa, F. Chirwa, M. Mususa, P. Khumalo, B. Hadebe, E. Chibatabare, P. Zvokuonera, A. Mutenha, N. Moyo, A. Mataya.