A business success can be measured by how effective its communication strategies are. We live in a world where both the internal and external stakeholders desire both relevant information and a proficient way to receive it. Africom s Voice solutions are the future of business communications. Operating within a harsh economic environment, it is becoming increasingly important for organisations to move towards a more centralised call processing model and leverage on converged IP networks as a means of saving costs.This entails a consolidation process of all branch and remote sites in order to extend the enterprise and fully utilise existing assets. The Africom Enterprise team is highly capable and accomplished at providing the appropriate solutions for such integration. With clients within the banking sector, retail enterprises, government agencies and educational institutions, our Enterprise team provides careful planning and attention to detail in order to provide clients with the most feasible, secure and reliable voice connectivity to suit individual needs. Our well trained engineers provide a highly accessible architecture to meet growing demands, while minimising service disruption.Furthermore, Africom provides a voice or calling network by leveraging on the existing data network of the corporate entity. This allows the organisation to make inter-branch phone calls without incurring any charges. Through the set-up of Africom s VOIP calling system, and without the need to use fixed phone lines that result in telephone bills, the corporate entity s telephone costs are drastically reduced.To top all of this off, Africom has added Unified Communications and Collaboration to its product portfolio. This Microsoft platform works hand in hand with our voice products and Polycom Video solutions to provide a wide variety of communications advantages. The suite includes:Voice and video conferencingMultiparty PC Audio/VideoOnline meetingsCall phones and mobilesAudio conferencingExchange voice mail integrationAd hoc collaborationDesktop sharingApplication sharingSingle number across mobile, desk phone and PC