Sophie Chese-Msowa Arts Correspondent A Ugandan breakdancer and hip hop artiste Ssekitoleko Joram, aka Jora, has hailed organisers of the Jibilika Dance Festival for making sure artistes are exposed to the world, The artiste graced Jibilika s first cipher of the year which was held over the weekend.The Ugandan also paid tribute to the Zimbabwean hip hop community for their great talent and resilient spirit exhibited during the show.Jora was the guest of honour at Jibilika s first event of the year.Speaking on the sidelines of several performances from different artistes, Jora said Zim hip hop had great potential to make it on an international scene. I call upon hip hop artistes worldwide to come and check out the Zimbabwean scene. Trust me, they will be forever changed. The struggles and hardships people face, most especially what the youths go through. Still they use hip hop as a tool to do something for themselves to get rid of acts like drugs, crime and being idle. I was so inspired by how youths are so passionate, determined and focused on learning new things, and most importantly, they are teaching one another, which is helping the scene to develop a lot. Several artistes among them dancers, musicians and beatboxers took part in the event.There was a huge turnout in the audience, which did not regret their time after all the performers exhibited great talent.Jibilika s new leadership fronted by NAMA winning actress and dancer Nyaradzo Nhongonhema and creative director Blessing Fire, a dancer, said they were elated by the huge turnout and promised a fun-filled year. Today s (Saturday) cypher was on a new level compared to the last ones we used to have. I have seen lot of new faces, young guys filled with love and passion for dance and music. The young rappers, dancers and beatboxers are taking the lead and growing in numbers. We are grateful to Old Mutual and B2C Co-working for availing us space to work and host events like these. It s encouraging to see such buy in and support from the corporate sector towards youth projects, he said.The main highlight of the day was when the New Age Sungura, a group of young beat makers led by Sean Mumba took to the stage.The group made and played local beats for the dancers and rappers, contrary to the usual foreign content and this was received with wild cheers from the audience.Meanwhile, Nyasha Madzinga, a leading female dancer, said she was excited to see more girls participating in the event especially as the world commemorates Women s Month. The cypher was very different indeed. We had more girls taking part today and this is very promising change of events. More girls are getting empowered to become tomorrow s best female dancers and rappers with abilities equal or even better than their male counterparts, she said.The regular event which was previously led Plot Mhako, who founded the organisation and led it for a decade, celebrates the richness and diversity of urban youth culture especially hip hop.Jibilika brings together young people to showcase, engage and learn in a youth friendly environment.Performers included the 2016 Jibilika Dance Festival winners Lethal Fam, rising beatboxer Raheem, rappers MC Chocho, Dingo and several other solo artists and groups.The next cypher will be hosted on April 29.