Sports Reporter IT appears Zimbabwe international forward Donald Ngoma could be on his way out of Tanzanian champions Young Africans.The speedy striker, who has been a sensation at the club since joining them from FC Platinum, seems to have fallen out with some of the team s officials. Ngoma has been injured for some time now and missed the Tanzania Derby at the weekend which Young Africans lost 1-2 to bitter rivals Simba.The striker was one of the stars at Yanga as they won the league title last season and he attracted interest from Egyptian and South African clubs.However, that love affair appears to have gone sour.There have been accusations that Ngoma has been trying to force a move out of the club and is using the injury to strain his relationship with the team.But he hit back at those who are accusing him of lacking professionalism. All the time (I) was silent (as I was) being insulted, a post said to have been posted by Ngoma on social media reads. The goes the truth and the reason why I m not playing is because of a knee injury. A lot of information has been spread via social media saying that I won t want to play because I want to leave the team. wonder where you are getting that information. It could not be established if the post was really posted by Ngoma but, what this clearly shows, is that there is tension now between the player and his club.According to the post, a doctor has been lying about Ngoma s injury. A doctor misused money from YANGA leaders where he was cheating them that he was treating me, taking me to hospitals for my injury, reads the post. Later he was asked about my condition and he told them I was fit to play while I was not able to play at all. He was telling the same people that the injury can heal in two weeks whilst the professional doctor was saying your injury needs six to eight weeks to heal. This fake doctor called Haron Haron caused confusion between me and the team. So, me and the club we are at a stage where I m making my decisions (and) soon I will give you correct information and update about my departure due to unporfessionalism from some club leaders. YANGA are also home to another Zimbabwean international Thabani Kamusoko. Simba, their biggest rivals, signed Method Mwanjali from CAPS United and the veteran has been the standout player in the Tanzania top-flight league this season.