LONDON. &#8211; Roberto Firmino is a big doubt for the English Premier League game Liverpool must win against Burnley tomorrow.The Brazil striker suffered thigh muscle damage in the pulsating victory over Arsenal, and hasn t trained all week. That makes him a real doubt to face Burnley at Anfield tomorrow, in showdown with the Clarets that boss Jurgen Klopp admits that it is a huge test for his side. The Reds have struggled badly against teams from the bottom half of the table, and were embarrassed at Turf Moor earlier in the season when they dominated possession but lost 2-0.Now Klopp may be forced to seek revenge without Firmino, the striker whose ability to counter press is crucial to his side s system. Firmino struggled a bit and felt something after the game, he couldn t train so we need to wait and we will see, Klopp admitted.Liverpool are dependent on the Brazilian s ability to defend from the front and run huge distances to help the counter-pressing style which is Klopp s trademark. But the Reds boss insisted that even without him, he doesn t need to revert to a Plan B &#8211; despite getting strong criticism that his teams don t know how to change their style when things aren t going right with their usual tactical approach. Look, it s not the first time people say I don t have a plan B or something, but yes we know how to play, and in the end you have to make the right decisions. It is not that we only concentrate on counter pressing or anything, it is all these we things we have to. You have to make the right decisions, and as far as I m concerned I have to help them make the right decision. If Firmino is not fit, then Divock Origi will deputise. Captain Jordan Henderson and Daniel Sturridge have both been ruled out. The pair have both missed the last two matches, Henderson with a foot problem while Sturridge had a virus and then suffered a hip injury.Fixtures (all 5pm unlessotherwise stated)Today: Bournemouth v West Ham United (5pm); Everton v West Bromwich Albion; Hull City v Swansea City.Tomorrow: Liverpool v Burnley (6pm). &#8211; Reuters.