Tinashe Johnson Nyamushanya Cool Lifestyle Writer In this fast modern generation a lot teens have a lot things to do because of competition hence everybody wants to be phenomenal. But the natural thing is we can t all be beast, we can t all be predators, we can t all be on top. In this article I shall use the word beast so that you ll get to know how beast behave.Like a beast, like a lion puts effort in hunting other animals. Same applies to us humans, we should love the process in whatever we do.You have eat your dream, you have to sleep your dream, you have to dream your dream,you have to touch it ,you have to see it when nobody else see it, you have to believe it when you cannot see it.You have to be possessed with your dream, every single day you have to put on beast mode, because if you live in beast mode, you ll have what other people don t have, you ll do what other people can t do.A lot of young people are failing at school not because they don t know but they are not in love with the process of school.Whatever you do, you have to desire for great things. Great things are all about decisions. One of the decisions that you have to take is to wean yourself from the web of procrastination.Always know that everyone wants to be a beast.Now is always best time for action.Do not find comfort in the advice of people who tell you to quit and settle for ordinary. Use the opportunity that you have. You have to take advantage of the opportunity right now.And always know that someone is counting on you .Your mother is counting on you, your father is also counting on you, your brother, your sister are also counting on you for different tasks.So guys be serious with whatever you do especially school work. Keep this in your memory everyone wants to be a beast, everyone wants good things, everyone wants to be phenomenal, everyone wants to be on top of the others.So do something, act like a beast. What you do will be result your end. So cool fellas I challenge you to use what you have to get what you want. Use mind to think, use your eyes to see where you re going.Know what you want just like the director of a movie knows his\her own film.Keep the ultimate and upgrade your values. Remember in everything you re doing, dominate like a lion in the jungle .In wrapping up the talk, give up on things that excites you and do something that is productive.The writer is 19 years and is studying Law at University of Zimbabwe.WhatsApp 0782265707; [email&#160;protected] or on Facebook: Tinashe Johnson Nyamushanya