Hope ChizuzuEddie Chikamhi and Paul Mundandi ZIFA have suspended Harare City Football Club media liaison officer Hope Chizuzu from all football-related activities over a slew of allegations against the establishment. Chizuzu, a veteran sports journalist and television football pundit, stands accused of misrepresentation and fabricating falsehoods. In a letter that was copied to Harare City FC chairman Alois Masepe, FIFA, CAF and COSAFA, ZIFA chief executive Joseph Mamutse said Chizuzu should relinquish his post at Harare City with immediate effect.Mamutse said Chizuzu had shown absolute disdain and disregard of the ZIFA constitution and had brought the association into disrepute because of his misconduct.Sources claimed Chizuzu, who sought to contest the ZIFA elections before pulling out at the last minute, was the source of a fake article claiming ZIFA president Philip Chiyangwa had been summoned to Egypt by CAF this week for a disciplinary hearing.In fact, Chiyangwa was invited by his Egyptian counterparts and not CAF.Chizuzu, however, was not interested when contacted for comment yesterday in light of the various allegation laid against him. I don t have an interest in that matter, so I have no comment to make. I think they have done what they know best so if ever there was going to be a comment it should come from them. It s them saying they have suspended me so I don t have anything to say about that. If it was myself making the allegations then it was a different issue, said Chizuzu.However, the Harare City spokesperson was yesterday handed the notice of provisional expulsion from all football roles and activities with the decision expected to be ratified at the next congress. Reference is made to the decision of the ZIFA Executive Committee on the 8th of March 2016 where it has been resolved that in terms of Article 34 (n) of the ZIFA constitution you are forthwith provisionally dismissed from all Association football roles and activities administered under FIFA and ZIFA statutes with immediate effect subject to the confirmation of your expulsion by the ZIFA Congress in terms of Article 36 (1) of the ZIFA Constitution. Further note that in terms of Article 36 (5) of the ZIFA constitution you are forthwith relieved of all your rights and functions as an official of Harare City Football Club with immediate effect. The reasons for your provisional dismissal are as follows; 1. You have consistently frequently misrepresented to be a FIFA advisor/representative without having been appointed to any such role in any manner whatsoever. You have extensively abused your misrepresentations to peddle falsehoods, malicious allegations engender disharmony and extort association football officials by claiming you have some influence which you clearly do not have. You are strictly required to produce any proof of such appointment. 2. You have falsely and maliciously fabricated and extensively published baseless allegations that the ZIFA and COSAFA president has been indicted for a disciplinary hearing case by CAF in Egypt. You were fully knowledgeable that no such case existed. 3. You have a long history of perpetuating acts of decent, fraud, manipulative conduct match-fixing and malicious pursuits in association footballing Zimbabwe. You have brought association football even though you have no skill, qualification and expertise of value to football. 4. You have shown absolute disdain and disregard of the ZIFA constitution and the ZIFA Rules and Regulations in your conduct which intransigently violates Article 2 and Article 7 of the ZIFA Constitution. Accordingly you have provisionally ceased to be a member of association football and therefore you must forthwith cease to act ,represent and associate yourself with FIFA and ZIFA in any manner whatsoever. Be advised that any misrepresentation of a purported association with Association football will obviously attract the necessary criminal sanctions. Be guided accordingly, read the letter signed by Mamutse. The letter was copied to Masepe the Chairman of Harare City who are the immediate employers of Chizuzu. It was also copied to FIFA secretary general, CAF secretary general, COSAFA secretary general, ZIFA president, ZIFA vice president and ZIFA executive committee members and their legal advisor.