LONDON. Sir Alex Ferguson has revealed he still gets worked up watching Manchester United but only when they play arch-rivals Liverpool and Manchester City . Ferguson was in charge at United for 26-and-a-half years until he stepped down in 2013 having won 13 English Premier League soccer titles, five FA Cups two Champions League crowns and four League Cups.Although Ferguson (75) said he does not get over-excited watching United since he has retired, he did admit to getting worked up whenever his former side take on Liverpool and City their biggest games of the season. The only time I get a bit anxious is when we play Liverpool and Manchester City, because those are the biggest games, said Ferguson. The thing about English football is its tribalism. You ve got the London clubs, the Midland clubs and Yorkshire clubs, and that creates a really good competitive edge to matches. But nothing compares with the Liverpool game, and of course Manchester City, now they ve risen to a very prominent position in the game, these games have become very important too. Strangely enough, I don t get over-excited about it. I enjoy watching them, because they re a great club to watch. There s always something exciting about that club. There s always something going to happen, no matter whether they lose or win, there s always something really exciting about it. Ferguson, now a United director and ambassador, claimed he had no regrets over his decision to retire and said there was no way he could end his association with the club once he stepped down. Being at the club for 26-and-a-half years, I just didn t want to wipe it out of my life, said Ferguson, speaking to SiriusXM in the US. So when they made me a director and an ambassador, I thought that was the perfect position to be in, watching the team, enjoying it and travelling with them at times. I ve definitely kept busy. When I decided to retire I was going to make sure I wasn t going to sit and watch television, I was going to get out and take another part of my life, and I ve enjoyed it. The Mirror