Apprenticeship helps students acquire technical skillsJulia Mugadzaweta Features Writer In 2016, the Inter-American Development Bank conducted a study to demystify apprenticeship. Their findings concluded that apprenticeship programmes are major drivers of improved social and economic development across the world.It deposed the notion that apprenticeships are based on outdated workforce methods and an inferior means to build a successful career in today s labour market.In Zimbabwe there are mainly two types of apprentices programmes, either apprentices are directly recruited by the Ministry of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development through the Industrial Training and Trade Testing Department or are directly recruited by industry.Mr Ephraim Tadzingwa, the director for Industrial Training and Trade Testing said apprenticeship programmes are more hands-on learning approaches. Apprenticeship programmes are a part of dual learning system which includes a more practical approach to learning and as a result are for practical courses like mechanics and robotics. He said under his department, the ministry registers students who qualify for apprenticeship. One should have registered with this department, after that registration you get a clearance letter which you use in your applications to be able to register, said Mr Tadzingwa. One should have five Ordinary Level subjects including Mathematics, English and Science. After you have received the clearance letter you then apply for apprenticeship programmes provided by different companies, he said.In Zimbabwe, young people assume that a college degree is the surest way to obtain gainful employment. But in an age where more high school-leavers pursue higher education than any previous generation, it s important to ask: Is it paying off?A survey by the Industrial Psychology Consultants titled Occupational Skills Survey Report indicated that a lack of critical skills such as business acumen among Zimbabweans, which are sought after in developed countries, could be the reason most local companies are struggling.Regular workforce studies show that the apprenticeship model works. Countries with strong apprenticeship systems such as Switzerland, Germany and Austria, have robust economies due to a skilled workforce.The same countries have less than half the rate of youth unemployment of developing countries. The director of the International Labour Organisation Country Office for Zimbabwe and Namibia Ms Hopolang Phororo said the ultimate barrier may be the perception that apprenticeship is a lesser option compared to four-years in university.Rueben Katsande operating the mining machine at Motor and General Engineering Workshop People still think of apprenticeships as just for trade, but that is wrong. Many companies and industries offer higher quality apprenticeships, she says. There is nothing wrong with pursuing the traditional college path, but too many Zimbabweans have come to view this as the only path and the economy has suffered as a result. Organisations such as Zimdef have taken initiatives to support members in addressing youth unemployment problem with apprenticeship and vocational training programmes.The International Organisation of Employers, after the global economic and financial crisis, set up the Global Apprenticeship Network, which is a business driven alliance with the overarching goal of encouraging and linking business initiatives on skills and employment for youth through apprenticeships.Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology chairperson Mr Peter Mataruse said although Zimdef was making strides in improving the education infrastructure, the committee was concerned with half-baked professionals being churned out for industry to employ. Industry is not performing at the moment and it seems there is a poor link between industry and institutions of higher learning, he said.This problem is not confined to Zimbabwe. Research has shown that the global youth unemployment rate is three times the adult unemployment rate. Zimbabwe Youth Council programming assistant director Mr Tanzikwa Guranungo said his organisation was working to address youth unemployment in Zimbabwe. With the Youth Employ Zimbabwe, we are addressing the demand side of skills amongst the youth. Young professionals are registering through the ZYC for subsequent linkages with corporates in their related fields through various platforms such as apprenticeship, professional contracts and attachments, he said. The VET sector has unique capabilities as the adaptive layer of the education system. More than any other education sector, it connects learning with the labour market, the workplace and community development, as well as with individual learner and employer aspirations. Mr Guranungo said Zimbabwe had adopted the VET learning model for human capital development. It was adopted as one of the most important key result areas in the Ministry (Youth Development, Indigenisation and Empowerment). This initiative will see youth being developed from artisanal to professional level, which means that the mismatch between supply and demand sides of skills in various industries will also be addressed, he said. School dropouts at all levels will be catered for through this programme operating in vocational training centres in an effort to address unemployment challenges. Among the models being looked at in the study is the Australian system, which makes it mandatory for every youth who wants to transition into the formal economy to go through an apprenticeship programme supported by the private sector.Companies like Green Fuels, Zimoco, Earnest and Young among others have joined hands with Government to create an apprenticeship programme within different business units within the companies.Green Fuels area training manager Mr Vincent Moyo said the apprenticeship programme was a response to the huge brain drain that is affecting Zimbabwe. We have tried to encompass all the students in Zimbabwe. Initially, we only catered for those from Chipinge, said Mr Moyo. This time around we have students from Chipinge district, other parts of Manicaland and some from across the country, he said.Mr Alexandra Nyakunu from Zimoco said traditionally apprenticeship programmes were designed for students who could not pursue a college education. On reflection, some of these programmes were introduced by whites during the colonial era as they tried to give opportunity to their children who were not bright enough for university, he said. Years ago, university was more actively promoted and an apprenticeship was seen as something for those who might not have been academically capable for university. The situation had changed, he said.In a degree-obsessed society, students waste their time, money and energy on obtaining a college education when they could get hands-on experience in the field of their choice. The classic apprenticeship teaching model is a much more practical option for individuals.Mr Nyakunu, however, noted the challenges faced due to current economic conditions. The economic situation has not been merciful to our programme. We used to enrol more than 30 apprentices but we have been forced to downscale to less than 10 at times. We do try our best to give employment to those we have trained (but) the problem is we now limit our apprentices, he said.Harare Institute of Technology dean of Industrial Sciences and Technology Dr Perkins Muredzi said apprenticeship programmes in Zimbabwe should be redeveloped in order to integrate the new learning systems. Apprenticeship today is an appreciation of technopreneurship, where we see the youth destroying the existing economic order by introducing new products and services, by creating new forms of organizations and by exploiting new or existing raw materials, and thinks of setting up their own enterprises. He added: They will improve the production process to the product brand itself as they have had the opportunity to learn what was and develop it to its fullest potential. The economic environment has, however, not presented a conducive environment for entrepreneurs to invest in such projects. Furthermore, low economic performance typically leads to decreased demand for apprentices by industry.Over the last two decades, the regional formality rate increased to 41 percent.Since 2013, advances in formalisation have stagnated, and today more than half of jobs in the country continue to be informal.Even though there is no concrete measure of the incidence of apprenticeships in the informal sector in Zimbabwe, the high levels of informality in the economy point to a high probability like in other developing countries.Informal apprenticeships whereby young people acquire experience and skills under the mentoring of an experienced craftsperson, are widespread. Feedback: [email&#160;protected]