Hardlife ZvirekwiEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter CAPS United vice captain Hardlife Zvirekwi says the Green Machine are ready to fight on two fronts as they gear up for an extremely demanding season in defence of the Castle Lager Premiership crown and the quest for greatness in the CAF Champions League. Makepekepe will open their title defence against Shabanie this weekend, with spirits high following a successful campaign which has seen them making the group stages of the Champions League for the first time.The priority for CAPS United this year is to defend their Castle Lager Premiership title.But, from next month, they will also be involved in the gruelling Champions League matches after they booked their ticket at the expense of former champions TP Mazembe.Zvirekwi said although they are anticipating a tough season, Makepekepe are still hungry for more podium performances. He said the victory over Highlanders in the final of the ZNA Charities Shield in Bulawayo at the weekend should serve as a warning of their intentions. The good thing is that when we won the championship last year we didn t tell ourselves that we have reached our limits. This win over Highlanders is a clear message that we are not satisfied with what we have achieved so far. We are hungry for more and I am sure if we continue on the same path the Cup Kings tag will be revived. So I would take the ZNA Charities final as a huge morale-booster and I tell you it always feels good to be collecting silverware, he said.Makepekepe, however, should expect tough competition for the crown from clubs such as FC Platinum, who have been building quietly under Norman Mapeza over the years, Highlanders, Ngezi Platinum and Chicken Inn.Highlanders will be aiming for continuity after retaining the core of the squad that gave Makepekepe a good run in the title race.Ngezi Platinum Stars have built a formidable unit after Tonderai Ndiraya went for experienced players to transform the side from minnows to a competitive outfit.Their participation in the Confederation Cup has given them an edge over the other teams in the league ahead of the start of the season.Giants Dynamos, who are on a rebuilding exercise after parting ways with almost the entire starting team over the past year, will always be the dark horses.Their coach, Lloyd Mutasa, believes he has assembled a competitive side.But Makepekepe look the most competitive, which makes them the target of all teams. Of course, we are the team to beat this year. Everybody would want to prove a point by winning against us. So this will make each and every game that we play very difficult. But our guys are willing to work very hard. We all know that this season it s not going to be easy, but we still want to do well, said Zvirekwi.CAPS United are likely to have a congested fixture programme with more mid-week games due to their participation in the CAF Champion League group stage which runs from May to September.The Harare giants will only know their opponents when the draw is conducted on April 26, at the CAF headquarters in Egypt.