When shopping look for pants shapes that are flattering for your figure Hello March!!! March is Women s month and obviously you have to prove to us men that you can run the world, like your fellow woman, US singer Beyonce once sang. I am expecting a lot this month when it comes to fashion and will focus on women.Before jumping to the runaway, as always, last week I had a quick analysis on Nama s fashion hits and misses.I also respect your opinions and feedback but be guided, I can t go a person s wardrobe and pick a jacket or dress but this column already serves the best.I already apologised last week for being absent on the red carpet but remember we still have got a long way to go this year, we will see each other on set and don t get caught offside.Hahahah someone asked if I am that brutal vocally or it is just writing. Just know that with fashion what you see is what you get. As per your request too that I should also have the opportunity to crown best or worst dress of the week in celebville.I am still to consider that.Back to the issue of the day, women love fashion and each day they try to bring out new things in them using clothes. This week s focus is on pants, some prefer to call them slacks.The rules of what to wear to work have changed. Gone are the days when trousers were only for men, and these days women are rocking them to work.Imagine that it s 7.45 am and you are running late to work. You re still home and start panicking. Buried under a pile of clothes, without the slightest idea as to what to wear to work today.Sound familiar? What to do and wear?In a complete mental distress you end up picking the same pair of slacks as you did on Monday, and off you go. Usually it s a pair of black trousers .I must say I am much privileged at work as I work with many women. I am also their guide when it comes to dressing. I have also noticed that this (should I call it a bug) issue of slacks on them is a far factor, especially the black trousers.For most women, putting together outfits for work (if you re into that) is much like going to the gym. You never do it, yet every day you promise yourself tomorrow s is the day. But it never is.Myrah London a fashion stylist said coloured pants can be a tricky purchase for most women. For one the bottom half of the body is an area most women don t want to call attention to. Neutral and darker bottoms worn with coloured tops tend to create a leaner bottom with attention brought up towards the face. Coloured bottoms can create the opposite effect when not worn properly. Few women want to emphasize their hips, thighs and butt areas. For this reason alone women avoid coloured pants, she said.However, when choosing the coloured pants, fit is crucial. You should know that black pants can camouflage lumps and bumps that brightly coloured pants can t.It is important to not only look for pants shapes that are flattering for your figure but to also think about the proper undergarments.There are different opinions on wearing shape wear under pants, some don t agree with doing it while others swear by it, but at least consider wearing underwear that offer slimming lines and doesn t show VPL (visible panty lines).If you are bottom heavy pants with a slight boot cut and straight leg pants tend to be more figure flattering in colours.The other issue with coloured pants is figuring out what to wear with them.I had a chat with my sister and friend Cynthia Bizure Sithole of Jan-Jam Men s and Ladies wear on the issue.And as a fashion stylist she shared her quick tips on how to wear black pants to work and not look boring?Cynthia said on coloured pants you can work well as most ladies love colour but black is a total headache.Here is the guide according to Cynthia on rocking the black slack.Quality fabric is one of the most important things. Black can look worn out, so an expensive looking fabric will give the trousers a posh vibeHigh waist pants are for office ladies. The 2000 s are gone. Make sure they are perfectly fitted but NOT painted on. Seriously?, This is again for office, not a club.Side pockets are a total MUST . They look super sophisticated and just make us seem less awkward and more important when you keep our hands in them.High heels are well, not always of course, but sometimes just leave it to high heels to literally style elevate any look.She said got some of the inspirations from Raes style corner. So ladies make sure you enjoy this March month, marching well with your slacks on point.Enjoy the weekend and don t forget we still in the rainy days and it is more appropriate to always have protective wear to avoid wetting those stylish designer outfits.