Chris MushohweZvamaida Murwira Herald Reporter&#8212; GOVERNMENT has invited applications from students mostly those able, but disadvantaged from remote rural schools keen to pursue undergraduate studies in foreign universities under the Presidential and National Scholarships Programme for the 2018 academic year. In a statement, executive director of the Presidential and National Scholarships Programme Dr Chris Mushohwe said the scholarships will cover five broad disciplines: Engineering, Health Science, Science, Agricultural Science and Commerce/Management Science.Candidates for undergraduate studies must be below 25 years of age and should possess a minimum of 10 points in relevant Advanced Level subjects of chosen degree studies.The objective of the programme was to target able, but disadvantaged students in remote districts of the country s 10 provinces.The district of origin and province of the applicant should be clearly marked on the curriculum vitae, which, in addition to being detailed, must be accompanied with certified copies of academic certificates and national identity documents. Preference will be given to applicants who satisfy the following criteria: applicants must be resident in one of the 10 provinces, preferably in the remote districts of the rural provinces. Students from remote districts, which have not benefited from previous selection, will be given preference. Priority is given to deserving orphans and less-privileged applicants, said Dr Mushohwe, who is also Minister of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services. Emphasis will be on gender balancing. Prospective students must also have proof of good health, a clean criminal record and undertake to return to Zimbabwe on completion of studies.They must also be prepared to be bonded by the Government of Zimbabwe. Provide a letter of motivation in support of the application, indicating briefly proven family history and social background, provide two referees one of whom must be head of the last school attended. All applicants should provide contact telephone numbers, at least two numbers (and) students currently at or accepted by any local or foreign university or institute of higher learning or college should disclose this in detail, failure to which will be disqualified, said Dr Mushohwe.A valid passport is also a requirement. All applications should reach the executive director s office by 20 September 2017. Please note that late applications will not be entertained. Only successful applicants will receive acknowledgement and notification from the programme executive director, read the statement. All applications should be strictly directed to the Programme Executive Director, Department of the Presidential and National Scholarships (Office of the President and Cabinet), 10th Floor, Compensation Building, corner Fourth Street and Central Avenue, Harare. Presidential scholarships have benefited thousands of disadvantaged children from across the country.