Takesure Chiragwi Mukudzei Chingwere in GWERU SHABANIE Mine coach Takesure Chiragwi says his men are ready to use home advantage and inflict damage on Dynamos’ title ambitions in a Castle Lager Premiership match at Maglas tomorrow. The asbestos miners are pumped up following their impressive away win over ZPC Kariba in the Chibuku Super Cup first round matches at the weekend. Chiragwi told The Herald he wants his side to maintain the momentum. The Chinda Boys humbled Ngezi Platinum 1-0 before holding Chapungu in the league. Over the weekend, they progressed into the Chibuku Super Cup quarter-finals with a commendable 2-1 victory over ZPC Kariba in Kariba. “We have been playing very well of late and the guys here will like to carry on with the good form against Dynamos,’’ said Chiragwi. “Dynamos are a very good team that is why they are the log leaders but with all due respect they are beatable and we have a chance of winning against them. “It is going to be a very interesting game of football, we both want maximum points, we are desperate to win the game to fight against relegation while they want to win so that they have a good chance of winning the title. “But to win against them it will not be easy, they are a team which can rise to the occasion and beat anyone, we are aware of all their threats and we are well prepared for them.” Dynamos climbed to the top of the table last week when they finally played their remaining 34 minutes of a re-arranged fixture against Chapungu which they won 4-0. The Glamour Boys will be without the league’s leading goalscorer Cameroonian Joel Epoupa Ntouba who completes his suspension. “They might be missing some key players but a team is not about individuals, it is about collective efforts,’’ said Chiragwi. “Our players are desperate to make the name for themselves and help the team fight against relegation and we have been telling them that this is their chance to shine. “We also have an advantage that we will be playing in front of our home supporters who will cheer us all the way.” DeMbare have always struggled whenever they visit Maglas, their last win at the venue was way back on 4 June 2006 when they recorded a narrow 2-1 victory.