The wreckage of the Toyota minibus which is believed to have been travelling to Bulawayo from Johannesburg.Thupeyo Muleya Beitbridge Bureau At least six Zimbabweans are believed to be among eight people who were killed when a Bulawayo-bound Toyota Quantum they were travelling in collided with a private vehicle along the N1 Highway in South Africa early on Sunday morning. Lieutenant Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe &#8211; pic from letabaherald.co.zaThe vehicle was reportedly travelling from Hillbrow in Johannesburg heading for Bulawayo, while the car was travelling to Makhadho town. Limpopo police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said the incident occurred between Makhado and Musina towns near the Akunamathatha area.He said six people died on the spot, while two others died upon admission at Musina Government Hospital. Said Lt Col Ngoepe: These people were killed during a culpable homicide which occurred along the N1 road next to Akunamathatha.The occupants of the passenger car died on the spot. A private car collided head on with a Toyota Quantum and three occupants of this private car died on the spot and two, including a child, died from the Quantum at about 6.55am on 10 September. The cause of this collision is still unknown, but the investigations will tell. The police investigations are still continuing. Lt Col Ngoepe identified the deceased as Nkosiyapha Sibanda (36), Mlapho Lukas (32), Jonas Phiri (30), Zwelibanzi Maxwell Sibili (44), Terry Sibili (37) and Yemeni Petrus Sibili (44).The wreckage of the passenger car which collided with a Toyota Quantum between Makhado and Musina towns on Sunday, 10 September 2017.He said they were yet to establish the names of other two people who died at the hospital and all the victims nationalities. Lt Col Ngoepe said several other passengers from the Quantum were injured and were admitted at Musina Hospital.Ngoepe urged motorists to always adhere to road traffic regulations to avoid the unnecessary loss of life. The N1 Highway is one of the busiest roads which links South Africa, with the rest of Sadc, especially those from Malawi, DRC, Zambia and Zimbabwe.The road has become a death trap, with over 30 people, including Zimbabweans and Malawians have died in accidents in the last eight months.