Mr Nkomo Herald Reporter Zimbabwe Newspapers 1980 (Ltd) continues to shine after its Printing and Packaging Division scooped accolades at the Zimbabwe Business Awards held in Harare this week. The National Printing and Packaging Company (Natprint) was on Monday named “Company of the Year” in the Print Services Industry, while its general manager Mr Njabulo Nkomo scooped the “Businessman of the Year” award in the print sector. In a statement, Zimpapers public relations manager Ms Beatrice Tonhodzayi said the awards came at a time when Natprint was scaling up its production. “These accolades come at a time when Natprint is scoring success after success,” she said. “Just last week, the company unveiled a new state-of-the-art printing press from Poland as part of its recapitalisation strategy. “The printing press, which is a game-changer in terms of the available capacity, will increase capacity utilisation and open more revenue generating opportunities for the business.” Speaking after receiving the awards, Mr Nkomo said he felt honoured by the recognition given to Natprint and owed it to the company’s customers. “This would not have been possible without our customers, who are our first priority in all our activities,” he said. “Our loyal customers have built our business to become the formidable brand that it is in the market today. “Due to the loyalty our customers have shown us, we have been challenged to continuously grow and improve our systems and methods in order to provide them with superior product quality and unmatched service delivery.” Mr Nkomo lauded staff at Natprint for their resilience, which saw them standing by the company as it went through tough times. Natprint recently turned itself from a loss making business into a profitable entity. Mr Nkomo said the staff members were the backbone of the business, without which the company would have not recorded the successes it is enjoying. Turning to his own award, Mr Nkomo said it was a renewed call to action, to re-energise and always bring his very best to the job and the printing and packaging industry. “I am ably supported by an exceptionally talented management team at Natprint that continuously challenges me to be a better leader and I dedicate this award to them, as in this award I see the virtues they stand for,” he said.