Skimbo Festival Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter Six Zimdancehall musicians have been selected to take part at this year’s edition of Ngamla Summer Festival in Cape Town to be held in December. The six Kinnah, Freeman, Hwindi President, Daruler, Seh Calaz and Tipsy Mabhanditi will perform along South African greatest dancehall acts like Morgan Stitch, Don Family, DJ Speed, Plierz and Bashmouth among others. Ngamla festival is meant to celebrate and promote dancehall culture and music and this year it will include several Zimbabwean artistes. In an interview with one of the festival coordinators, Tinashe Matika affectionately known as Skimbo said preparations have begun with several artists from Zimbabwe expected to take part. “The event will be held at Portuguese Club in Brooklyn, Cape Town. The festival is being sponsored by Ngamla studios courtesy of local businessman Onious Magasa. “So far, Zimbabwean artistes have already confirmed joining a long list of Cape Town based stars. Preparations are running smoothly and tickets have started selling. The event will take place on December 2,” he said. He said a live DVD coverage will also be recorded on the day. “Apart from Freeman (HKD Boss) who is set to shoot a musical video on the same venue, we are going to record a live DVD and all artists will be using live band. “The DVDs will then be out and sold for studio project. As mentioned, we are already issuing free CDs’ to our fans in preparation of the big event. On the day fans will get a free T-shirt at the gate,” he said. Skimbo added that Zimdancehall music was making an impact in South Africa as evidence with how foreign fans were responding to it especially at shows. “I think Zimbabwean music has managed to penetrate very well in foreign lands. “The genre of Zimdancehall music has seen of late dominating and people here in Cape Town continue to demand more of the local musicians. Music unites the people and it is important that it can be used to shape a society. We receive a lot of requests from Cape Town fans on such shows and this is the reason, why this year’s edition we have added more Zimdancehall stars,” he said.