WEST INDIES batsman Chris Gayle could make a sensational return to Test cricket next in Zimbabwe next month three years after his last dance with the game at this level after the hard-hitting cricketer said he was open to a comeback. He even joked he could play in the third Test when the Windies take on England at Lord s to decide their three-match Test series.The 37-year-old, who has not played Test cricket since September 2014, is considered a massive crowd puller.When asked by former England captain Michael Vaughan what it would take for a return to the five-day game, Gayle replied confidently: Just for me to say when I m ready. The Windies board s policy has meant that players can only be selected for international duty if they feature in the same format in domestic cricket, but a temporary amnesty has allowed Gayle to return to the one-day international squad to face England after the final Test. Even if it s a farewell Test match, as I ve mentioned in previous interviews, yeah, even if it s a farewell match, said Gayle. If I can t manage it, so be it. But I m still looking forward to playing a Test match. If I can t manage it so be it. I don t want to walk away and just retire like that from Test cricket and I really actually deserve that based on what I ve actually done over the last couple of years. As long as the body allows me, I will play. Meanwhile, the spirit and passion that has characterised Bangladesh in cricketing world was evident in Dhaka on Wednesday.Riding on Shakib Al Hasan s all-round show and Tamim Iqbal s twin fifties, Bangladesh registered their first ever win over Australia in Tests, beating Steve Smith s men by 20 runs inside four days.Whatever happens in the last Test, Wednesday s result will go down as one of the biggest upsets in Test cricket.Here s a look at the five other big upsets in Test cricket:New Zealand beat West Indies by a wicket, Dunedin, 1980West Indies were the all-conquering side, having crushed Australia in their own backyard 2-0 in 1979/80. They arrived in New Zealand but were in for a surprise in the first Test in Dunedin.Richard Hadlee s 5/34 skittled out West Indies for 140 and a gritty 65 from Bruce Edgar gave the Kiwis a 109-run lead. Windies responded in the second innings with 212 thanks to Desmond Haynes 105, setting the hosts a target of 104.Some gritty batting in the face of hostile bowling, contentious umpiring decisions allowed New Zealand to sneak home by one wicket and win the three-Test series 1-0. West Indies did not lose a series for the next 15 years.Zimbabwe beat Pakistan by seven wickets, Peshawar, 1998After putting Pakistan in to bat, Heath Streak and Henry Olonga shared seven wickets between them to bundle out the hosts for 296.In reply, Neil Johnson slammed his maiden century, but that wasn t enough for a lead as Zimbabwe could only manage 238. But Olonga and Mpumelelo Mbangwa triggered a collapse that saw Pakistan score only 103. Chasing 162, Zimbabwe romped home with seven wickets in hand. Murray Goodwin top scored with an unbeaten 73.Bangladesh beat England by 108 runs, Dhaka, 2016Chasing 273, England seemed to be cruising when Alastair Cook and Ben Duckett guided them to 100/0 at tea on Day 3. But Mehedi, playing only his second Test, took six wickets to trigger a dramatic collapse in the final session. The visitors crumbled to 164 all out to suffer their first ever defeat against Bangladesh in 10 Tests.Bangladesh beat Sri Lanka by four wickets, Colombo, 2017 Chasing 191, Tamim Iqbal struck a fine 82 before captain Mushfiqur Rahim (22*) helped Bangladesh cross the finish line on a dramatic final day.It sealed their first win over Sri Lanka in the format.West Indies beat England by five wickets, Headingley, Leeds, 2017 Shai Hope (147 and 118 not out) became the first player in history to record two centuries in a first-class game at Headingley, while Kraigg Brathwaite came close to achieving the same landmark &#8211; scoring 134 and 95 as West Indies defeated England in their own backyard for the first time since 2000. Sports Reporter/BBC/Hindustan Times