Cde Hlongwane Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter THE second edition of the National Aids Council Pro-Am golf day set for October 3-6 was launched at Royal Harare on Monday evening. Going by the theme HIV and Cancer Prevention, the tournament is the second biggest after the Zimbabwe Open and will have a purse value of $35 000 and this year it incorporates women golfers as well. The event was launched by Minister of Health and Child Care, David Parirenyatwa, together with Minister of Sports and Recreation, Makhosini Hlongwane, at Royal Harare. Hlongwane, in a speech read on his behalf, said he felt honoured to be part of this very exciting health and sporting initiative. “The second NAC, HIV and Cancer Prevention Drive Pro-Am resonates with the Ministry’s thrust to promote sport and play a strategy to achieve the well-being among our people. “I would like to commend NAC’s initiative to mobilise resources while highlighting the central connection between sports and health,” said Hlongwane. Parirenyatwa said they expect a very competitive tournament. NAC chief executive Tapuwa Magare said they hope to raise 15 sets of mobile cancer-testing equipment for rural health centres across the country. “The world now faces an increased threat of non-communicable diseases, including cancer in particular, and about 4 000 new cases are recorded in Zimbabwe annually of which 60% of them will be associated with HIV. “The major challenge is lack of cancer-screening equipment in rural areas to ensure early detection and treatment so with this Golf Day, together with partners like POSB, Agribank, New Avakash, Medrite, Old Mutual, BankABC, FBC among others, we are happy to see the tournament return for the second year,” said Magare. Zambian Sunshine Tour player Madalitso Muthiya and Malawi’s Paul Chidale are the two of the foreigners who have confirmed their availability for the tourney. Muthiya, who has improved considerably on the Sunshine Circuit, will be back to the country which he has since adopted as his second home having played in the Zambezi Tour competitions like Hwange Open, Marange Resources and Lowveld Pro-Am among several others. The 27-year-old Chidale will be making his first appearance on the local scene after turning professional this year. The Malawian made history by becoming the second golfer in his country to turn professional after the late Gilliam Kapito and has so far participated in the Zambia Open. Last year the tournament was won by South Africa-based Steven Ferreira who beat more than 40 local professionals. Women golfers will get their campaign underway on October 3.