LONDON. English Premiership soccer side Crystal Palace have confirmed they have sacked Frank de Boer after just 77 days as manager, with Roy Hodgson set to replace him at Selhurst Park. The Dutchman, who succeeded Sam Allardyce in June, lost all four of his English Premier League games without scoring; the worst start of any top-flight club in 93 years.The Eagles dominated in a 1-0 defeat at Burnley on Sunday and De Boer hoped an improved performance would save him, but yesterday morning he was confirmed as the shortest-serving English Premier League manager in terms of matches.Sky sources understand that Hodgson is set to sign a two-year contract as his successor and bring in Ray Lewington, who worked with him for England, as his assistant.De Boer had been appointed to revamp Palace s style of football and make them more effective in possession; mirroring that of Ajax, with whom he won four Eredivisie titles before resigning in 2016.After appointing the 47-year-old in June, chairman Steve Parish said: There were 37 managers on the shortlist. I talked to all of them and said we need an evolution over a period of time . The technical detail is Frank s world. We need to find a way of breaking down teams that give us the ball. If teams give us the ball, typically we lose. If we give them the ball, we beat them. Parish also answered fans frustrations on Twitter after Sunday s defeat at Turf Moor, insisting the club needed to stick together a sentiment echoed by injured winger Wilfried Zaha.De Boer had vowed to fight and said he was convinced they could achieve their objectives, after losses to Huddersfield, Liverpool and Swansea, despite admitting he did not know what his future held beyond the weekend.But Palace issued a statement shortly before midday yesterday which read: We would like to thank Frank for his dedication and hard work during his time at the club. A new manager will be appointed in due course and we wish Frank the very best of luck for the future. De Boer, who had a short 88-day spell in charge at Inter Milan after his time at Ajax, said on Instagram: Very disappointed about the decision but never the less I want to thank the players, staff and the fans for their support. Good luck for the future. Sky Sports.