Dasrum on stage Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter The Korea Festival opened in style with a great event at Reps Theatre on Monday night. The festival, which is meant to celebrate Korean arts and culture focusing on traditional music, dance and food, will end on October 3. Afro-fusion singer and mbira player Hope Masike who was part of the line-up performances, put up a polished act as she represented Zimbabwe. Masike performed, “Chamutengure” before being joined on stage by Korean traditional music ensemble, Dasrum as they did their rendition of “Mudhara Vachauya” by Jah Prayzah. The all- female Korean outfit performed with their nine different tradition instruments like the Gayageum which is a stringed instrument that produces different sounds, the Haegeum — the Korean version of a violin, the Daegeum — traditional flute, the Janggu and the Kkwaenggwari which is a popular percussion instrument. They later dedicated another song “Fly to the Sky” to Zimbabwe because of its beautiful sky and environment. Dasrum was accompanied by its director and composer, YU Eun Sun. In an interview, the Korean Counsellor Kim Sangil said he was happy with the huge turnout and how music united people on the night. “Zimbabwe and Korea share the same concepts when it comes to music. Our music is centred on agriculture and promoting land development. Zimbabwe is a beautiful loving and peaceful country. Let’s preserve our cultures and heritage,” he said. He said Darsum team have contributed immensely to recreating and deepening Korean traditional music and culture to be presented in Zimbabwe. “During their stay the two groups, Artfield and Dasrum, will have an opportunity to enjoy Zimbabwe arts and culture and experience the beauty of what the country has to offer. “They will visit the balancing rocks in Epworth as well as the country’s sculpture galleries. “Hopefully the Korea Festival in Zimbabwe and all ensuing activities will present a good opportunity to deepen cultural exchange and mutual understanding between Zimbabwe and the Republic of Korea,” he said. However, as the celebration of arts and culture continues, tonight Artfield, an all-female dance group from Korea led by the director, HUR Sung Jae in collaboration with AfriKera Arts Trust of Zimbabwe and Music Crossroads will have an all-day training workshop at Meikles House. The Korean dance group will on Friday display their talent at the KOICA Alumni Association in Zimbabwe (KAAZ) Movie Night being held at The Venue at 6pm. Artfield’s final performance, which signals the end of the Korea Festival in Zimbabwe and will be at a reception being held at the Ambassador’s Residence on the October 3.