Yadah Stars players Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter THEY have been punching above their weight in recent weeks and today Yadah Stars will have most of the clubs in the race for the Premiership title on their side praying they can, like the biblical David, destroy another Goliath to add another twist to this riveting campaign. The Harare club punched holes into the campaign of 2015 champions Chicken Inn by defeating the Gamecocks 2-1 in Bulawayo in a result that sent shock-waves across the domestic top-flight league. They then showed that the result wasn’t a fluke as they found a way to prevent the Gamecocks from scoring in 86 minutes of their Chibuku Super Cup first round tie at Ascot on Sunday. The match was abandoned after the Bulawayo side walked off the pitch in protest over a penalty awarded to Yadah. Today, the club owned by Prophet Walter Magaya, who has been helping with the coaching as its technical advisor, host FC Platinum at Rufaro knowing they have the full support of the Dynamos, Chicken Inn and Ngezi Platinum fans. Coach Thomas Ruzive believes today’s match will be another tough test for his men. “We have been enjoying a good form and I hope it will continue in the game against FC Platinum. Everything is well and we are looking forward for a win as we want to finish the season on a high note,’’ he said. “FC Platinum are title contenders so it is not going to be an easy encounter as they don’t want to drop points at this point of their campaign. “They will come well prepared and, as a team which is now targeting the league title, they will be dangerous opponents. “We are happy that we are now up to the level which we have been longing for and we will be ready for them.’’ Yadah have seen their defence being strengthened by the acquisition of Zimbabwe international defender Denis Dauda who has provided the right partner for Jimmy Dzingai, the tough centre-back who has been one of the best players in the domestic Premiership this year. Dzingai has been leading from the front probably the highest scoring centre-back in the domestic top-flight league who is dangerous when his team gets free-kicks given his aerial supremacy. A model professional, who works harder than everyone in the squad, Dzingai has been the heart and soul of the Yadah side and a lot is expected from him again today. He needs to be at his very best given the defence will be tested by the likes of Takesure Chinyama, Mkhokheli Dube and gift Mbweti. Teenage forward Leeroy Mavhunga, who was the team’s star at the start of the campaign, appear to have suffered from the brutal challenges he has been receiving and has been short on confidence. But the Yadah technical staff believe they can get the young forward playing at a high level again because he has been very impressive in training again. However, their silent weapon has been speedy utility player Morris Musiyakuvi, who can be deployed as a striker and can also play as a left-back. His blistering pace, when he played as a centre forward in a tactical mastercall against Chicken Inn in Bulawayo, proved too much to handle for the hosts with the Harare side having gambled that their opponents could not stand 90 minutes of going toe-to-toe with him in races. Chicken Inn have a number of veteran players whom Yadah gambled on tiring during the course of the game and Musiyakuvi scored the winning goal. Norman Mapeza and his men arrive in Harare still reeling from the shock loss in the Chibuku Super Cup at the hands of Midlands rivals Chapungu at Mandava. They even missed a penalty in that match. They have the arsenal to give their hosts a good run, on their day, but — towards the tail-end of the season where there is so much at stake in every game — pressure tends to build and affects those who would be favourites to win such matches.