President MugabePamela Shumba Senior Reporter PREPARATIONS for the Bulawayo Presidential Youth Interface Rally have gathered momentum with the Bulawayo city centre district intensifying its mobilisation programme for the event and the forthcoming harmonised elections. The district held a meeting on Thursday to strategise on how to strengthen its structures at cell level, mobilise people for the rally and the voter registration programme ahead of the elections.The district chairperson, Cde Andifasi Banda, said he was glad that the district was working well with the youths and other wings in the provincial structures in its mobilisation drive. This meeting is meant to remind us that we have to continue working together as a team and always remember that our goal is to be an organised group of people, make the party leadership proud and win the elections. All of us are part of the mobilisation programme and all of us have to make sure that the Bulawayo Presidential Youth Interface Rally is a success. Let s have unity of purpose and exercise maximum discipline, said Cde Banda.He emphasised the need for every party member to portray President Mugabe s blemishless image and push the Zanu-PF agenda of winning the elections.He urged youths to shun factionalism and tribalism. The district s political commissar Cde Godfrey Masanha emphasised the need for party members to register to vote. The national political commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere has given each and every one of us the task to mobilise people for registration. Tomorrow we re going out to the people to start the mobilisation process. We need to educate people out there on the voter registration programme and make sure that we re all ready for the elections, said Cde Masanha. The party s welfare and transport secretary in the district Cde Raymond Mutomba said those, who do not register to vote will be destroying the party. Politics is about numbers and voting. As the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission launches its voter registration programme let s take advantage of it and register to vote. Those who don t have identity documents should also take advantage of the identity document registration, said Cde Mutomba.The meeting was attended by the provincial leadership and district members and former chairpersons of the district.