Felix Tangawarima Petros Kausiyo Deputy Sports Editor FOLLOWING years of dedicated service to the game, top Zimbabwean match official Felix Tangawarima has been rewarded with a place on the powerful Confederation of African Football’s referees committee. Tangawarima was at the weekend appointed to the CAF Referees administration committee following a marathon executive committee meeting in Accra, Ghana, by the continental body’s leadership led by president Ahmad. The appointment of the seven-time Zimbabwe Referee of the Year to the powerful committee was one of a host of resolutions reached by Ahmad and his executive. They also resolved to strip Kenya off the right to host the 2018 CHAN tournament. CAF, who have since opened fresh bids for countries wishing to host the CHAN competition, also confirmed Egypt as the hosts of the 2019 Under-23 Africa Cup following Zambia’s withdrawal. Tangawarima, revered at home as much as he is around the continent due to his dignified service during and after his active refereeing years, is also a FIFA instructor and heads the COSAFA Referees committee. The widely-travelled official becomes the third Zimbabwean after the late ZIFA president Nelson “Jumbo Jet’’ Chirwa and Frank Valdemarca to be appointed into the CAF referees committee. Tangawarima, who is currently in Somalia on FIFA business, was yesterday naturally elated by his latest appointment. “It is always an honour for one to be recognised by his Confederation. I have dedicated myself to the game, firstly as an active international referee for 17 years and since I retired I have dedicated myself to the referees’ development on the entire continent. “It is pleasing to note that people were seeing all this. I am also grateful to the CAF president (Ahmad) and his executive for this recognition. “I am also grateful to God the Almighty for his Grace and I cannot forget my family they have supported me all the time. My pastors and members of my beloved church — Inner-City UMC, thank you all,’’ Tangawarima said. Tangawarima also pointed to the support he has received on the home front as one of the huge driving forces in his career. “I have had immense support from the people of my country and fellow referees and football association (ZIFA). I can assure you all that I will perform my new duties to the best of my ability,’’ A firm referee during his active years, Tangawarima has maintained that strict character when holding training courses around Africa as part of the FIFA Referee Assistance Programme and in the standards he demands from his protégés in the COSAFA region and the rest of the continent. ZIFA president Philip Chiyangwa last month challenged an elite panel of 32 match officials who had been attending a FIFA course at Prince Edward in Harare to emulate Tangawarima and build their capacities and aim at officiating beyond just the domestic Premiership. Some of the referees that Tangawarima has worked with also took to social media platforms to post their congratulatory messages. Top South African referee Victor Gomes observed that Tangawarima’s appointment was not by sheer luck. “I wish to be very sincere . . . I must congratulate Mr Felix Tangawarima on being selected on MERIT to be on the CAF REFEREES COMMITTEE. “This is definitely by no luck or any other reason but a life time to referees commitment always putting referees first without any personal gain or agenda. We need more real leaders like this . . . TODAY I SALUTE YOU SIR . . . we serve an awesome God,’’ wrote Gomes. Another South African referee Zakhele Siwela also noted that Tangawarima had been rewarded for his hard work. “When everybody sees the end product they forget who is behind and doing all the hard dirty work, you have given a lot of your family time and sacrificed a lot for your referees. “I pray to the good and merciful Lord to keep you and bless you with strength and everlasting wisdom,’’ said Siwela. There were also a host of congratulatory messages from such officials like Norman Matemera and top female referees Bernadette Kwimbira of Malawi, Zimbabwe’s Rusina Majo, Victoire Queency (Mauritius) and Mozambican Olivia Simeone.