Cde ChomboWalter Nyamukondiwa Chinhoyi Bureau Zanu-PF s campaign machinery is rolling out workshops to lay an election roadmap that prepares the party for resounding victory in next year s harmonised elections. The party has partnered the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB) to produce an electronic membership card with banking functionality expected to bring convenience to its members.Addressing a Mashonaland West provincial coordinating committee meeting in Chinhoyi yesterday, secretary for Administration Dr Ignatius Chombo said the party was now in election mode and resources were being mobilised to ensure full implementation of the election roadmap.Also read: Chombo calls for unity Zanu-PF targets 5 million votes Women s League throws weight behind President Zanu-PF poised for clean sweep in 2018 Zanu-PF gears for 2018 . . . set to deploy Politburo members President still tops Survey The commissariat department has so far held six workshops in Matabeleland North and South, Manicaland, Masvingo, Bulawayo and Mashonaland Central provinces.Mashonaland West became the seventh province to hold the workshop.Dr Chombo said the workshops were aimed at preparing the party and put in place systems that ensure the party remains in power.Dr Chombo said a united zanu-pf was unbeatable adding that the 2018 harmonised elections were crucial to give the party a mandate to fulfill the aspirations of the people. Let s be united in everything we do, especially now that our election campaign has begun. Everyone knows that a united Zanu-PF is unbeatable. Let s work together and stop all these petty fights for us to have a resounding victory come 2018, said Dr Chombo. When there are differences, let us resolve them amicably. The party has structures for conflict resolution at every level and our constitution lays out the procedures to follow in disciplinary matters, he said.He said the department of legal affairs had distributed a circular detailing the procedures before calling on party members to desist from ambushing each other. Zanu-PF has many projects under ZimAsset that it has to see to fruition. The successful completion of these projects will see the relegation of the MDC and other opposition political parties to the back waters of national politics. Simply put, Zanu-PF has to continue to rule this country as no-one else has anything worthwhile to offer. This comes as the party won Norton council by-elections held over the weekend.Ward 1 Zanu-PF candidate Cde Flavian Charumbira won after garnering 397 votes against independent candidate Francis Deka who polled 241 votes.In Ward 11, Tinotenda Mafusire got 723 votes while independent candidate Eager Takawira got 298 votes and Melissa Muzuva of the NCA got eight votes.He said the party should take advantage of the free national registration window to regularise members documents.Dr Chombo hailed the youths for setting the pace for the party through the Presidential Youth Interface rallies that have been held in eight of the 10 provinces so far.Dr Chombo called on members to take heed of President Mugabe s call for members to unite and shun factionalism, tribalism and regionalism.He said elections would take place in the first half of 2018 and the party should move with speed to put in place mechanisms that ensure victory. As for us Zanu-PF, there is no other option than to win this election by a margin that leaves no doubt that we are the dominant political party in this country, he said. Our victory next year must send a very clear and strong message to all and sundry that Zanu-PF means serious business in fulfilling the mandate that the people of Zimbabwe have always bestowed on us to govern this country since we attained Independence in 1980. The party, he said, had nominated President Mugabe as its sole Presidential candidate before calling on all other aspirants to wait until they were told to start campaigns.He said resources were being mobilised to ensure the party s campaign roadmap was followed to the letter.Party national political commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere called for discipline in the party.Explaining the objectives of the workshops, Cde Kasukuwere said a Zanu-PF victory hinged on the mobilisation effort of its members. We want to advance the voter registration programme which should cascade to everyone. Zanu-PF members must defend the party in the ballot box. Your first responsibility as a cadre is to defend the party. Go and exercise your right to vote, he said.On the electronic party card, Cde Kasukuwere said plans were at an advanced stage to equip it with banking functionality riding on the POSB platform.He said the attitude of the membership would determine whether the party attracts the numbers for a resounding victory.The workshop was also attended by Defence Minister Dr Sydney Sekeramayi, Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development Minister Dr Joseph Made and other senior party officials.