Lloyd Chitembwe Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter Champions CAPS United, reeling from a spate of injuries in their defence, were yesterday praying for some good news ahead of a high-profile Castle Lager Premiership tie against Chicken Inn at the National Sports Stadium this evening. The match has been slated for 7pm. Makepekepe had three of their defenders grounded this week when Goodwin Goriyati joined Justice Jangano and Carlton Munzabwa in the casualty room. Goriyati limped off the pitch towards the end of the Chibuku Super Cup victory over Ngezi Platinum Stars at Baobab last Sunday, leaving Stephen Makatuka as the only natural centre-back. Jangano, who last featured in the Harare Derby, missed the team’s league assignment away to Hwange last week and the Chibuku Super Cup match at Ngezi Platinum. Munzabwa was also recovering from the injuries he suffered in a recent car accident. The trio, however, was set to take a fitness test after the late afternoon training session yesterday to determine their availability for the match. Makepekepe suffered a 1-3 loss at the hands of the Gamecocks in the reverse fixture early last month at Luveve. The Green Machine then were going through a lean spell as they tried hard to play catch up after losing ground because of the pressure from their participation in CAF Champions League. But they have since recovered and have been roaring like true champions. They have won eight of their last 12 competitive matches, losing only once to Dynamos in the first Harare Derby. They have raked in 24 points from their last 11 games which has lifted them from the bottom half of the table to sixth place on the log standings. But with games coming thick and fast, assistant coach Mark Mathe pointed out that injuries and fatigue have become a huge concern in their camp. “You know we are playing catch-up in the Premier League and it’s been a tough month so far in which we have played three matches inside 14 days. “We were away to Hwange on Thursday and won 1-0. We played Dynamos and Bantu Rovers as well in a very short space of time. “We must salute our players for achieving such positive results. We have been winning against tough teams and in difficult venues which makes everything beautiful for us,” said Mathe. The Harare giants have opted for an evening kick-off to try and draw more fans to this high-profile game in which the Dynamos fans also have an interest. Makepekepe have also maintained their ticket prices at $3 for the rest of the ground, $5 and $10 for the VVIP. Chicken Inn will be without their skipper Moses Jackson after he was booked in the matches against Triangle, and in the shock 1-2 defeat to Yadah two weeks ago. Rahman Gumbo’s men have 51 points in the bag, they are only a point behind log leaders Dynamos who travel to Shabanie Mine tomorrow. But Makepekepe’s win tonight would delight millions of the DeMbare fans as it will work in favour of Glamour Boys. For this reason, Dynamos supporters could be tempted to rally behind the Green Machine. Gumbo has a vastly experienced team comprising the likes of former Soccer Star of the Year Clemence Matawu, Passmore Bernard, Chris Samakweri, Darryl Nyandoro and in-form former Hwange midfielder Innocent Muchaneka. Fixtures Today Bulawayo City v Tsholotsho (Barbourfields), ZPC Kariba v Ngezi Platinum (Nyamhunga), Yadah v FC Platinum (Rufaro), How Mine v Triangle (Luveve), CAPS Utd v Chicken Inn (NSS, 7pm), Hwange v Black Rhinos (Colliery) Thursday Shabanie Mine v Dynamos (Maglas), Harare City v Chapungu (Rufaro), Highlanders v Bantu Rovers (Barbourfields)