First Lady Amai Grace MugabeHerald Reporter The leader of a Chitungwiza based orphanage has hailed First Lady Dr Grace Mugabe for her philanthropic work and called for a national committee to explore ways to transform the lives of disadvantaged children. Mother Love Children Village Trust chairperson Mr Menas Machoko said there was need to form a national committee constituted by executives of children s homes and tap the expertise that Dr Mugabe had shown in raising disadvantaged children at her Mazowe Orphanage.Mr Machoko said this at the weekend in the dormitory town where Mrs Pauline Mangwana, wife to Zanu-PF Central Committee member and former Cabinet Minister, Cde Paul Mangwana donated half a tonne of maize to the home. We need a national committee that look into the challenges faced by these children s homes. We will then submit a consolidated report to the First Lady. She has done great work at the Mazowe home and we need to learn how she has done it. Many orphanages are going through several challenges, ours included, said Mr Machoko.He described the contribution made by Amai Mugabe to the welfare of children as unparalleled. We have a lot to learn from Amai Mugabe given her contribution in Mazowe. We need guidance from her, he said.Turning to the more than 30 children at the home, Mr Machoko implored them to remain disciplined and strive to aim higher in their lives.Mrs Mangwana said she was touched by the plight of the children at the home. After I heard about the challenges the home is facing, I said to myself since I have maize at our family farm in Chegutu, why don t I take some and help. You are the future leaders. Let us continue to work together, said Mrs Mangwana.The children s home founder Mrs Mary Gobvu said some of the challenges they were facing was assisting the children obtain identity documents given stringent requirements authorities sometimes demand. We also have a small space here given the number of children we continue to assist besides challenges like food. We have approached some potential donors, but nothing has come out. The classroom blocks and boys dormitory are not recognised by council and are actually regarded as illegal structures, said Mrs Gobvu.She implored local leadership in the area to come on board to help the home saying there was need to join hands with their institutions to alleviate the challenges faced by disadvantaged children.