Freeman Razemba Crime Reporter At least four more people were killed in road traffic accidents countrywide recorded between Sunday and yesterday morning, bringing the Easter and Independence holiday death toll to 21. According to police statistics, 91 people were injured in 171 road traffic accidents recorded during the holiday.Of the 171 road accidents recorded, 12 of them were fatal.National police spokesperson Chief Superintendent Paul Nyathi said they impounded 92 vehicles for being unroadworthy and for various defects.He said police arrested 17 595 motorists for violating various traffic offences.During the same period last year, 10 people were killed while 55 others were injured in 181 road traffic accidents that were recorded.Of the 181 accidents, nine of them were fatal, while a total of 20 528 motorists were arrested for various traffic offences.A total of 298 vehicles were also impounded during the same period last year. The major cause of accidents so far has been observed to be speeding, inattention, misjudgement, overtaking errors and failure to give way, said Chief supt Nyathi. Police are urging motorists to be observant, cautious and ensure they do not speed, overtake in dangerous situations and above all safeguard lives on the road. Let s all drive to arrive alive and contribute towards safety on the roads. Drivers should not be reckless and where possible avoid travelling at night. Police have released the names of nine people who died in two separate road accidents that occurred in Chinhoyi and Chipinge between Saturday and Sunday.Six of the victims died in a fatal road accident that occurred at the 111km peg along the Harare-Chirundu Road near Chinhoyi on Sunday.The six have been identified as Portia Maluke (7), Collin Mucherwa (47), Talent Mabvumise (1), Naniso Basitore (45) and Tadiwa Maluke (25) all of Marowa Village under Chief Dandawa in Karoi and Emmanuel Chidenye (43) of Shanguru Farm Compound in Chinhoyi. The ZRP has also managed to identify 19 out of 20 of those who were injured. They are still admitted at Chinhoyi Provincial Hospital. ZRP wishes them a speedy recovery, Chief Supt Nyathi said.He said those who died in a fatal road accident which occurred on Saturday at the 60 km peg along Birchenough Bridge-Mt Selinda Road in Chipinge were Sharon Zivanai (17), Tafadzwa Makaza (23) and Ronzai Hlatshwayo (11) all of Hunganyi Village under Chief Mutema in Chipinge.