President MugabeTendai Mugabe Senior Reporter President Mugabe yesterday received a special envoy from Guinea, Ambassador Djigui Camara, who delivered a message from his president and African Union chairman Alpha Conde. The Head of State and Government and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces met Ambassador Camara at his Munhumutapa Offices.Speaking to journalists after the meeting, Ambassador Camara said he delivered a special message to President Mugabe from President Conde.As part of his visit, Ambassador Camara said he also wanted to source advice from President Mugabe on how to run the affairs of the African Union for onward submission to his leader.President Conde assumed the AU chairmanship in January this year.Said Ambassador Camara: I come here (because) as you know our president is now chairing the African Union. He (President Mugabe) is the former (AU chairman) so I come to get advice from him to my President on how to chair the presidency of the AU and how to strengthen the relations between our two countries. I came on behalf of my president because as you know, Guinea and Zimbabwe are very close. That means we have to strengthen day by day, month by month and year by year the relations between the two countries. We need to implement a lot of things. In this regard, the president has sent me here to bring his greetings to his brother and this is why I am here. Ambassador Camara lauded President Mugabe as one of Africa s great statesmen saying: As you know, Zimbabwe you have a wise President. He is one of the great figures in Africa from whom we need to be advised. Turning to developments in his country, Ambassador Camara said they had registered remarkable economic progress since President Conde assumed power seven years ago. Guinea, as you know, is trying to improve, he said. We had lots of long stories and too many regimes. Now, as the President took power almost seven years ago, things are improving and democracy is thriving. We are building also the economy and I think we are satisfied with the development we have achieved now. The meeting was also attended by Foreign Affairs Minister Simbarashe Mumbengegwi.