Paul Mundandi in ZVISHAVANE WHEN Farai Mupasiri was offloaded by Dynamos, he feared he would never play football again. But, a few months down the road, the forward is thrilled to be resurrecting his career in this small, but rich mining town. To be honest I am here in Zvishavane to resurrect my career. A lot of things were said about me and some people even said I was a bad boy. It is said East, West which place is best? East, West, home is best and to this who doesn t know I am in my mum s hometown? My mother comes from Mazvihwa just a few kilometres from Zvishavane town. It is always nice to be with your mother when things are tight and I have chosen Shabanie Football Club to be the best place to resuscitate my career. The fans here, the coaches and the players are just marvellous. They are a blessed lot. I could have gone to Triangle kuna mudhara Mangwiro, but it s not about money as I feel we have the money at home. I just love to be on the soccer pitch and it s something that I am working hard on. My heart is blue and I will always give Dynamos all the respect. They played a big part in my life and I will always support them, but at the moment I will be very busy doing my things on the pitch and my desire is to show Zimbabwe who Mupasiri is and with the help of the Almighty God I will make it, said Mupasiri.Mupasiri featured for Shabanie on Sunday and impressed in his debut tie against defending champions CAPS United.He was given a standing ovation when he left the pitch late in the game after being injured. My brother I was touched. I have never seen this kind of support and love and I just felt I have to give them back the love. The people here love me and I am not here for money, but I am just here for football, I want game time and the coaches promised me that I will be playing so what more can I ask for? His mother, Agnes, was there in Zvishavane to support him. I am happy that he is playing. I am a caring mother that is why I drive all the way from Harare to give him support and next Sunday I will be in Bulawayo for their match against Highlanders. I know that the club is not financially sound, but I just told him to go and play football. It s not about money, but I want him to be busy on the pitch, said Agnes.