LAHORE. &#8211; Pakistan s most successful skipper Misbah-ul-Haq will retire after the upcoming Test cricket series against the West Indies, he announced yesterday, ending months of speculation over his future. The series against the West Indies is my last series, the 42-year-old told reporters at the Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore, adding that he had been under no pressure to retire. I am satisfied, he said.Since taking over the captaincy in the wake of an international spot-fixing scandal in 2010, Misbah &#8211; who is currently the oldest international cricketer &#8211; has led Pakistan in 53 Tests, winning 24, losing 18 and drawing 11.He also briefly led his team to world number one Test rankings last year, despite playing no matches at home due to concerns over security.The feat earned him widespread acclaim throughout the cricketing world. Earlier this year, coach Mickey Arthur described Misbah as integral to the Pakistan side.But the veteran has long been expected to call time on his illustrious career, with former Pakistan cricket heavyweights demanding he step down in January after a 3-0 rout in Australia.It was Pakistan s fourth consecutive 3-0 whitewash in Australia since 1999, and their 12th straight defeat. I think Misbah s time is up, former captain turned commentator Ramiz Raja said at the time. Opponents know about his strategies and Misbah has spent that in a glorious way. He has played his innings well to become Pakistan s most successful skipper, he added.After the loss, Misbah said he would take his time to decide on the future &#8211; reversing an earlier announcement that he would quit, which he said was triggered by frustration. My cricket journey was very good, he said yesterday, though he said he wished he could have played a series against arch-rivals India. There were many hardships in my career but for now I am focusing on the present situation. The series against West Indies is a good opportunity to bring the team back on the winning track. The last six Test matches do not reflect the abilities of our team. Misbah will lead Pakistan in the Tests, the first of which starts in Jamaica on April 21, the second in Barbados on April 30 and the third in Dominica on May 10.The series has also seen selectors introduce fresh blood in the form of young leg-spinner Shadab Khan (18) who rose to prominence in the second edition of the Pakistan Super League in February-March.Pakistan won 24 of its 53 Test matches under Misbah and, for the first time, occupied the top Test rankings last year before a dip in form set in. Pakistan suffered six consecutive Test defeats and lost series in New Zealand and Australia, which triggered speculation about Misbah s future as the Test captain.Admired for his unflappable temperament in a Pakistan dressing room teeming with mercurial talents, Misbah was handed the Test captaincy after a 2010 spot-fixing scandal in England which led to a ban on, among others, predecessor Salman Butt.Since his 2001 Test debut in New Zealand, Misbah has gone on to make 4951 runs from 72 matches at a 45-plus average.The top order batsman also played 162 one-dayers before quitting the format after the 2015 World Cup. &#8211; AFP.