Richard ChihoroEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS team manager Richard Chihoro says midfielder Emmanuel Mandiranga, who delivered the breakthrough win for the Glamour Boys at Hwange on Sunday, is beginning to reap rewards for his hard work. Mandiranga scored his first goal for the Harare giants when he nodded home an injury-time winner from a corner kick to give the Glamour Boys their first set of points in three outings.Chihoro said Mandiranga needed the goal to boost his confidence after making an impressive start. I am happy for Mandiranga because he has been working hard. Getting that goal is something important for his game. Those who have watched our matches, including those Independence Cup games, I am sure they can bear witness that this is a talented young man who has room to improve if he continues working hard. It s good for his confidence. The young man, like many of the boys we have in our squad, has been working very hard. He is very happy about it and he says that goal signals the beginning of even great things to come, said Chihoro.Dynamos had made a characteristic slow start after getting a point in their opening two matches against FC Platinum and Triangle. We have been playing good football, but we were just unfortunate not to win matches. I am sure this away win was a huge morale-booster. The boys are now growing in confidence because if you can win at a difficult place like Hwange then there is reason to believe you can win your matches either home or away. So we look forward to continue with that form. It s very important to be winning matches consistently because we are in a marathon. The good thing is we seem to be correcting our mistakes. Before this match we had conceded four penalties in four matches which in the end cost us. But we were much disciplined in Hwange, we didn t give away a penalty, said Chihoro.DeMbare will face How Mine in their next match at the National Sports Stadium on Thursday. But while they were winning at the weekend, their biggest rivals CAPS United and Highlanders experienced mixed fortunes.Defending champions CAPS United were held 1-1 by Tsholotsho at home with Ronald Pfumbidzai salvaging the match after Nkosana Siwela had given the visitors the lead at the National Sports Stadium.Dynamos now have four points, CAPS United five and Highlanders six with the giants tucked in the middle of the table. Ngezi Platinum Stars still lead the race despite falling to their first defeat on Saturday when they were shocked by newboys Yadah Stars 1-0.Yadah continued with their impressive start as they moved into second place with eight points while FC Platinum drifted away from the top with a 1-1 draw at Bulawayo City.The teams will resume their battles with midweek fixtures slated for tomorrow and Thursday.CAPS United and Ngezi Platinum match will be the pick of the crop as Makepekepe travel to Baobab tomorrow looking to bounce back from the disappointment.Yadah will take their crusade to Chapungu who have beefed up their technical team by roping in Rodwell Dhlakama following a winless run of four games under Tendai Chikuni.The tight fixture programme will see a packed weekend as SuperSport announce their return to local football.The match between CAPS United and Chapungu on Saturday will be first to be broadcast live this year. Castle Lager Premiership FixturesTomorrow: Harare City FC v Bulawayo City (NSS), Ngezi Platinum v CAPS United (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v Shabanie Mine (Nyamhunga), Tsholotsho v Highlanders (Dulivhadzimo), FC Platinum v Triangle United (Maglas), Chapungu v Yadah (Ascot), Bantu Rovers v Hwange (Luveve)Thursday: Chicken Inn v Black Rhinos (Luveve), Dynamos v How Mine (NSS)Saturday: Bulawayo City v Triangle United (Barbourfields), How Mine v Bantu Rovers (Luveve), CAPS United v Chapungu (NSS)Sunday: Yadah v Dynamos (NSS), Shabanie Mine v Tsholotsho (Gibbo), Hwange v Chicken Inn (Colliery), Highlanders v Ngezi Platinum (Barbourfields)Monday: Harare City v ZPC Kariba 1pm (NSS), Black Rhinos v FC Platinum (NSS)