Children should read their books during the holidaysSchool is out and holidays are here. While holidays are a time to unwind after three months of working hard, school work should not be placed on the back burner. When you are on holidays the change from the routine of school can be difficult to adjust to and the temptation to lie in bed or keep putting study off can mean getting focused is difficult.That s why we have put together 10 tips that will help you study effectively at home over the holidays.Get up earlyEven though you may feel you study better at night don t fall into the trap of burning the midnight oil and then rising at 11 or 12 the following day. The problem is that during the exams you will need to be alert and ready to go at 9.30am each morning so try and stick to a sleep cycle that will suit this early start.Get your project work finishedLoads of subjects have project work that needs to be finished. You really don t want to be putting the finishing touches on a project the week before your mocks so do your best to get all your project work out of the way as soon as possible. You will thank yourself believe me.Past papers are keyYou should be turning your attention to looking at the types of questions you are likely to face.This way you will be able to see the remaining gaps in your knowledge. Understanding what the examiner is looking for in their marking scheme can often be the difference between an A and a B.Sort your room outThe last thing you want the night before an exam is to be tidying your room to find some missing notes.Take a couple of hours now to get your study area in order so that you know where everything is.If possible try and make your study area distraction-free. Your parents can help here by getting noisy brothers or sisters to keep the noise down near you.Take regular breaksThe human brain is not designed to stay concentrated on one task for hours on end so this means taking breaks actually helps you study better! Try and break up your study into blocks similar to the school day and take bigger breaks around lunch and dinner time.Get movingIt s very common to start feeling really drowsy after a long period of study. One of the best things you can do is to get the blood flowing by doing some exercise.Whether it s walking the dog or running, getting your heart rate up will wake you up by increasing blood flow to the brain and you ll also feel way less stressed afterwards.It s good to talk . . . sometimesIf you re feeling stressed it s definitely a good idea to talk to your friends but try and do so only during your study breaks.While you are studying turn your phone off and try to avoid Facebook and other social media. Constantly replying to messages and checking Facebook will half the amount of work you get done.Sleep, Sleep, SleepWhen we asked repeat students for their advice having done the exam last year one thing that kept coming up was the importance of getting good sleep.Sleep is really important as it helps you relax and research has shown your mind actually organises and stores new information as you dream.The exams are not a sprint but a marathon. You will be writing non-stop for up to 6 hours a daily, day after day.A teenager should be getting at least 8 hour sleep per night so try and stick to this if you are not to burn out.Just do itYou are now in the lucky position where you can still influence the grades you score in these exams. There is no point standing outside your principal s office when you have just received your results wishing you had studied a bit more.How you do is still in your hands. Everything you study in the next week or two will still be fresh in your mind so is more likely to be remembered. Just do it! Studyclix.