Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter NATIONAL Athletics Association of Zimbabwe president Tendai Tagara says they still have a long way to go in terms of producing the quality that can compete at some of the world s top marathons. Tagara said while there are many long distance runners in the country, they still need to push to reach the elite level that will see them increasing the numbers of athletes taking part in some of the world-class races such as the Boston and London marathon.Zimbabwe had Cuthbert Nyasango at the Boston marathon and he came 14th, while United States-based Pardon Ndhlovu finished on position 19. The elite athletes are invited on performance. But we don t have athletes who run two hours 10 minutes and under, which is for the elites. So here we do not have many people of that calibre to run marathons such as the New York City, Boston and London marathons among other top world races. We only have two elite athletes for men Cuthbert and Wirimai Juwawo and for women there is Rutendo Nyahora. It shows us we have not reached the pedigree of having athletes that can run two hours 10 minutes and under. That s what we have to work on, said Tagara.The NAAZ president went on to urge athletes to take their time preparing themselves for the bigger stage if they are to reach their full potential. These are opportunities that need to be created, so we have a big pool. Yes we have six or seven athletes qualifying for the World Championships or the Olympics but that pedigree of running two hours 10 minutes and under, we still have to fight for that one. The challenge is on coaches, agents and managers. As an association, we create the opportunities, we clear our athletes when they go outside the country. We also advise them on races to compete in but to compete in those top races, it s all by running good times. They have to perform first for us to assist. Young athletes must concentrate on the standard marathon and take time there. So that their agents and managers understand the future. For example Nyasango and Juwawo took time competing in the 10 000m events preparing for the marathon. Agents need to change their mindset of quick bucks, where they push athletes for ultra-marathon because that s where money is. Very few athletes want to remain running 21km and 42km, said Tagara.Tagara commended Nyasango and Ndhlovu for their impressive performance at the Boston marathon.