Denver MukambaSports Reporter DYNAMOS success in the Independence Cup has come at a cost as midfielders Denver Mukamba and Gift Saunyama could miss the trip to Hwange for a league match against the coalminers on Sunday. The duo failed to train with the rest of the squad yesterday when the Glamour Boys returned from a rest day after featuring in two big matches against CAPS United and Highlanders.Mukamba, one of the players Dynamos are looking up to this season, pulled a muscle early in the Uhuru semi-final win over CAPS United at the National Sports Stadium last Sunday.He missed the final against Highlanders.However, the former Zimbabwe international has begun light workouts while Saunyama who was stretchered off with a shin injury in the final was yesterday receiving treatment on the sidelines of the training session.Team manager Richard Chihoro said the duo have slim chances of making it for the weekend game. It s unfortunate that both players have not started full training yet. For this week I don t think they will be able to make the team. Already we are left with only Friday training and it will be difficult for the coach to include them in his plans. But I m sure these injuries are not as serious as may have been feared. We expect them to be up and running full throttle next week. The good thing is that Denver has had some light training while Gift is continuing to receive treatment, said Chihoro.Despite the Uhuru Cup success, Dynamos are under pressure to step up in the league campaign.The Harare giants have made a characteristic slow start after losing the opening match to FC Platinum and then getting a share of the spoils at Triangle where they gave away a two-goal advantage at Gibbo.Coach Lloyd Mutasa knows the demands from his constituency and has challenged his players to build on their Uhuru success. What I can only say is there are no easy fixtures for Dynamos, so there is no element of underrating the opponents no matter how badly they have been playing. In fact what I have come to realise with Dynamos is that the big games against the likes of Highlanders and CAPS United are much better in terms of intensity and competitiveness than with the other smaller teams. Those other teams play games of their lives when they face Dynamos, so we should always have that in mind, said Mutasa.