Prophet Makandiwa Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life (Proverbs 4:23). You have to guard, protect and secure your heart with all diligence because issues of life flow from it.There are so many parts of your body that are so delicate, special and important but this scripture in the Word of God is encouraging you to protect just one part, which is your heart.How the rest of the body parts are maintained is determined by the condition of your heart.By the heart the Bible is not talking about the blood pumping organ but your mind.You have to protect your mind with all diligence for out of it are the issues of life.It means your mind produces what you have right now; everything you have now was produced by your mind.Your mind is very important. In your entire life and entire body, where exactly is poverty situated? We have to investigate that because you do not have anything that is not given a place in your life.Anything that you have occupies a place and that is why you have it. If it is poverty, it has a place that was allocated to it, that is why you have it.You cannot say you have it if you do not have it.We need to investigate where poverty stays and what makes it survive within your body.As for me I hate poverty and I do not want to see it; it is a virus, an infection and it is cancerous.Poverty is very toxic, you cannot worship God properly when you are broke because poverty is not a good thing. Where does poverty stay, is it in your physical body or spiritual body? One thing that is certain is that poverty is there.For us to be able to correct the situation, the place where poverty resides has to be known, it has to be discovered and exposed. We need to discover where poverty is accommodated in the lives of people. Your problem is not outside of you, poverty can manifest outwardly but it is never from outside but from inside out.Your pain in life has a place somewhere in your physical or spiritual body.There is poverty in people s lives but where does it stay? When we talk about the mind, we are talking about the most sensitive part of your body.We are not here to talk about your brain, there is a difference between your brain and your mind. Every time you hear about your mind, what you think about is your brain but there is a difference.Your brain is one but your mind is divided into two. If a person is poor, has been poor and he remains poor, there is a lecture that was given to him by somebody or by something. You were trained, you cannot be a professional poor person unless there are lessons, proper training and coaching and having the right mentors on how to maintain poverty.There are lessons that are supposed to be observed for poverty to be maintained. Information that keeps poverty in one s life is given to him in his mind not in his hands.I know Jesus is the greatest gift that was given by God, but He is applicable to sensible people.God did not just give you a brain but also a mind which is divided into two; the conscious mind and the subconscious mind.The reason why you are going through what you are going through is because of how your mind was conditioned.If you can change the conditioning of your mind, you can change your entire environment.Protect your mind with all diligence for out of it are the issues of life; your life is from your mind. For a person to move from poverty to prosperity, it takes the conditioning of the mind.Your life is never from your education but from your mind. There are educated people out there broke in every aspect of life, educated but very broke.They have been to school and informed yet they do not seem to make it in life because there is a level of the mind that only the Holy Spirit can help you to access.The conscious mind is the one you are aware of, it is so active and hands on.It is the mind you are using now and you know that you are using it because you are conscious of it. But understand that 90 percent of what you do on a daily basis is done by the subconscious mind, only 10 percent is conscious.Your first time to drive a car when you were still learning to do so, you did not want to talk to anyone or even attempt to close the window while driving.You did not even want a slight disturbance because your conscious mind was actively involved.It was foreign information coming into your conscious mind for the very first time and a high level of concentration was needed.But if you continue driving and you master, it you will manage to do some other things whilst you are driving.You can talk to somebody and at the same time know when to apply brakes. It will no longer be your conscious mind driving the car but the subconscious.You can be on the phone for 400 metres and still able to stop where you are supposed to stop and able to observe every traffic light that you see while your conversation remains consistent on the phone. Your conscious mind will be on the phone while your subconscious mind is driving you home.Information has to be given to the conscious mind first and foremost.The conscious mind is the reception area that welcomes every new information that comes.Therefore, you have to be careful of the voice you choose to listen to. When information is given to you, it is given to your conscious mind but it does not stay in your conscious mind.It is believed that what you repeatedly think about over and over again is imprinted in your conscious mind and it leaves a mark in your brain.The more you think about something it becomes part of you.That is why the Word of God encourages the poor to say I am rich and the weak say I am strong.Strength has to be conceived by continuously saying I am strong.Money should become a subject that you continuously talk about even if you do not have it.