IT S FINALLY IN THE BAG . . . Sergio Garcia of Spain celebrates after defeating Justin Rose of England on the first play-off hole during the final round of the 2017 Masters Tournament at Augusta National Golf Club in Georgia on SundayAUGUSTA. &#8211; Sergio Garcia ended nearly two decades of major heartbreak when he beat Justin Rose in a playoff to win the US Masters golf title on Sunday on what would have been the 60th birthday of his hero, the late Seve Ballesteros. After four runner-up finishes and years of self doubt, Spain s Garcia finally delivered the long-awaited title that seemed destined to forever elude him.His 12-foot birdie putt at the first extra hole dropped into the cup at the par-four 18th, triggering a massive cheer from an Augusta National gallery that began chanting his name after willing him across the line.As his ball disappeared, Garcia crouched, clenched his fists and let out a mighty scream of pure joy releasing years of frustration, his 74 major starts the most made by any professional golfer before a first win. I did think about, am I ever going to win one? admitted Garcia. I ve had so many good chances and either I lost them or someone has done something extraordinary to beat me. So it did cross my mind. But lately I ve been thinking a little bit different, a little bit more positive and kind of accepting, too, that if it for whatever reason didn t happen, my life is still going to go on. Garcia said it was amazing to join his Spanish idols Ballesteros and Jose Maria Olazabal as a Masters champion by winning at Augusta.The Spaniard won on what would have been the 60th birthday of compatriot Ballesteros, the 1980 and 1983 winner of the Green Jacket, who died in 2011. It has been such a long time coming. I am so happy, said Garcia (37). To do it on Seve s 60th birthday and to join him and Olazabal, my two idols in golf, it s something amazing. Jose sent me a text on Wednesday telling me how much he believed in me and what I needed to do, believe in myself, be calm and not let things get to me as I had in the past. Deadlocked after nine holes, the two friends and rivals produced an enthralling back nine showdown worthy of any Masters final round in what became a head-to-head battle after the other challengers fell away.Garcia and Rose both carded 69 to finish tied on nine-under-par 279, three strokes clear of 2011 Masters champion Charl Schwartzel of South Africa, sending the year s first major to a playoff when both missed birdie putts at the 72nd hole.Garcia frittered away a chance to win in regulation when his downhill five-footer dribbled away to the right and did not even threaten the cup, moments after Rose had also misread his seven-footer. It marked the first Masters playoff since Adam Scott beat Angel Cabrera to become the first Australian to wear the Green Jacket in 2013.All the omens had seemed in place for a Spanish victory with Garcia starting the day perched atop the leader-board alongside Rose on Ballesteros birthday. Ballesteros, the Spanish talisman who died of brain cancer in 2011, inspired a generation of golfers in his country, winning the Green Jacket in 1980 and 1983. &#8211; Reuters.