Bethen PasinawakoArts Correspondent Award winning gospel musician Mathias Mhere has joined forces with gospel diva Bethen Pasinawako for a show to be held on April 29 in Harare. Dubbed New Album Error Pasi Pezuva the family show is set to take place at Kingstone Building in the capital.In an interview, Mhere said he was happy to be sharing stage with Bethen saying the show was expected to strengthen the working relationship between the two. I have worked with different musicians and Bethen is one of them. She is proving to be a mature and discerning musician who deserves respect. Sharing a stage with her is actually an honour and something that I have always wanted, he said.The diminutive musician also revealed that the show was also one of the many initiatives he was working on to market his album. The show is going to be a memorable one, we will be worshipping God and people should come in their numbers to witness God s blessings. We will be playing a lot of music from my latest album and a few from my old projects so it is going to be a memorable day. We will also have an opportunity to play songs that we did together with Bethen, he said.Mathias MhereMhere said he was optimistic that April 29 would open up opportunities for similar shows in Harare and its environs, as the pint-sized musician strengthens his marketing skills to push his brand. I have realised that we need to interact more with our fans, celebrate, worship with them, while listening to their concerns on how we should build and strengthen our brand.Mhere added that, while he was happy with the way his album was received, he said it was important to maintain the momentum, in preparation of future musical projects. Titled, Old Testament the album which was produced by Lyton Ngolomi featured South African-based Mkhululi Bhebhe and veteran musician Zexie Manatsa.Manatsa featured on the song Dhindindi Full Time which is fifth on the album with a high tempo and has captured the hearts of music lovers on radio. It competes with the eighth track Munyaradzi on a jiti beat.Other tracks on the album are Nhamo Yekuzvipa , Error , followed by Zvinatsei and Nyasha Ndini , Judas Iscariot , Vana VaJesu which featured Mkhululi Bhebhe, Munyaradzi , Kuzodza , Ndikoko , Bye Bye and Tenda .Basing on the feedback, Nyasha Ndini seems to be the people s favourite.Music lovers on social networks believe this is one of the best projects to come out of the singer s relationship with producer Ngolomi.&nbsp;