Taurai MangwiroOscar Rusenga in TRIANGLE Triangle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0Chicken inn . . . . . .. . . . . . . . (0) 1 SUBSTITUTE Darryl Nyandoro scored a late winner to give former champions Chicken Inn a crucial away win in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Gibbo yesterday.The win compounded woes for new Triangle coach Taurai Mangwiro who is yet to collect maximum points in his opening four matches.He has managed two points out of a possible 12. Mangwiro was, however, still optimistic ahead of their midweek game against FC Platinum. Chicken Inn were coming at us from the onset, we struggled to keep pace with them, they never allowed us to play our usual game unlike the other games when we played well and failed to collect maximum points. Today we didn t do much, we didn t come to the party. It s not that kind of a start that I had hoped for but some times losing these first games is good because it helps us in making good decisions going forward. I have seen teams struggling before turning things around. I think we are going to regroup starting with our visit to Zvishavane, said Mangwiro.Nyandoro separated the two teams with a well-drilled shot as he connected first-time a pass from Tafadzwa Kutinyu in the 82nd minute to beat goalkeeper Ronald Mudimu.Triangle almost drew first blood in the 12th minute through a thunderous shot from their captain Nhamo Lameck but the visitors goalkeeper Elvis Chipezeze was equal to the task as he tipped the ball over the bar for a corner. The visitors were then forced to make an injury-induced substitution bringing on Obadiah Tarumbwa for injured captain Clemence Matawu who had pulled muscle in the 16th minute.The heroics of Chipezeze kept the visitors in the game after he made another acrobatic save to deny former Dynamos star Russel Madamombe what seemed like a goal two minutes from half-time. We came to this game more prepared than Triangle, they were coming from a loss against Bantu and they were looking to pick themselves up and I think that affected them a lot, we deserved to win though and I am very happy with the three points, said Triangle coach Rahman Gumbo.Teams.Triangle: R. Mudimu, R Kawondera, M Nelson, D Dzvinyai, H Mavundi, Guthrie Zhokinyu, T Sibelo, S Alimenda (T. Huwa 84th min), R Madamombe (D. Chirambamuriwo 60th min), C Denias (T. Rukanda 69th min), N.LameckChicken Inn: E.Chipezeze, P.Bernard, D Lunga, M Jackson, T Hadebe, T. Kadyaridzire (D. Nyandoro 53rd min), Innocent Macheneka, G Majika, T.Kutinyu, C. Matawu (O. Tarumbwa 16th min), L. Lawe (K.Gurure 69th min)