Ellina Mhlanga in NYANGA THE stage is set for the 2017 Bonaqua Troutbeck ATU Triathlon African Cup that gets underway this morning with 13 international athletes taking part in the elite men and women divisions. With last year s winners, Ayan Beisenbayev of Kazakhistan and Fabienne St Louis of Mauritius not taking part, new champions are expected to be crowned today at Troutbeck Resort.The limelight falls on Jonas Schomburg of Turkey, who will be competing under the International Triathlon Union, and South Africa s Cindy Schwulst, who took part in the previous edition.Schomburg came seventh in the men s section while Schwulst was second and is gunning for a podium finish again today. This will be my fifth year racing here at Troutbeck. I am really looking forward to racing again. It s a very challenging course with lots of hills and higher altitude. And I have seen strong competitors here so I am just hoping for a good race. Last year I finished second, I am hoping to do well again and hopefully get a podium. I would like to finish first. I seem to get quite a few seconds here but I can say I have seen strong competitors, Schwulst said.Being her fifth appearance at the Troutbeck event, Schwulst said she knows what to expect. Definitely I know the course well, I know what to expect, so it is an advantage having raced here, said Schwulst.Other South Africans to join Schwulst are Vicky van der Merwe, Jodie Berry and Maude Elaine le Roux, who comes in as the youngest participant in the women s race.Berry said although there are several new faces for this year s edition including Japan s pair of Aoi Kuramoto and Chika Sato, it s always a challenge racing at Troutbeck. I don t have high expectations but I love this venue and I love this race and it s been good to me in the past. This is my fourth year here, so the course is not new to me but it s always challenging, very hilly and technical. I would love a podium, so anything top three would be very nice, but we will see, said Berry.Namibia s Jean-Paul Burger believes the small field gives him a good chance to be among the top three in the elite men.The elite athletes will do a 1 500m swim, 40km cycle, followed by a 10km run.The race also serves as the championships for local athletes, where they will have a chance to showcase their talent in the youth Under-13 and Under-15, junior Under-17 and Under-19.In addition to the Troutbeck mile-open swim, Triathlon Zimbabwe has also introduced a new event, aquathlon on the programme and is open to individuals and teams. Elite Men: Jonas Schomburg (Turkey), Dylan Nortje, Jacobs Kruger (all South Africa), Linus Stimmel (Germany), Jean-Paul Burger (Namibia), Ren Sato, Takumi Higo (all Japan).Elite Women: Aoi Kuramoto, Chika Sato (all Japan), Cindy Schwulst, Vicky Van Der Merwe, Jodie Berry , Maude Elaine Le Roux (all South Africa).