Norman MapezaPaul Mundandi in ZVISHAVANE NORMAN MAPEZA is enjoying FC Platinum s flying start to their 2017 Castle Lager Premiership campaign, but doesn t want to put his men under pressure. The Zvishavane miners have won their opening two matches and they now face a Bulawayo City side oozing with confidence. Everyone in life wishes for good things and I am no exception together with my team. God knows where we are heading to, said Mapeza. I am happy for the boys following their brilliant show. I have a good squad and I need a positive result against Bulawayo City. We still have 32 games to go and it is too early for me to talk about the championship, but we will just take each game as it comes. Mapeza is also concerned that he continues to be quoted out of context after reports filtered through that he was not happy with some match officials. I remember being interviewed on Monday in Bulawayo about the officiating during the Highlanders game and I told the journalists to write what they saw. I knew some people wanted me to say something about the referees which I never did, but they went on to write (what they wanted), he said.Mapeza feels some people want to pit him into a fight against referees who have been doing a good job.He still called for FC Platinum and Shabanie Mine fans to join hands in supporting the town s Premiership clubs. I am still to see a number of FC Platinum fans in their regalia joining the Shabanie Mine fans and supporting Shabanie when they are playing at home or away and the same must happen to Shabanie Mine fans. I am not yet impressed with the numbers and I will continue with my plea of unity. We are teams in the same town and I feel we need each other, he said.Mapeza on Good Friday was at Maglas watching the match between Shabanie Mine and Bulawayo City. He has become a regular feature at Maglas Stadium and its something he feels must also happen to the fans.FC Platinum will be again on the road today for a date with Bulawayo City at Barbourfields tomorrow afternoon.Mapeza s men are expected to stop the excitement in the Bulawayo City owned team.Mandla Lulu Mpofu was the first coach to put a dent on Shabanie Mine form last week and his team will be bubbling with confidence as they seek to stop the platinum miner s league campaign.It will, however, not be very easy for a team that has the likes of captain Petros Mhari veterans Gift Bello and Winston Mhango, Brett Amidu, Talent Chawapihwa, Gift Mbweti to lose to Bulawayo City.