 Then the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! behold, I cannot speak: for I am a child. (Jeremiah 1:4-6). There are two things that are very important in your life. The first thing is to realise the need of the Messiah in your life. When you receive Jesus Christ in your life, your encounter with the Creator becomes your turning point.When you meet the Lord Jesus and you receive Him that is the most defining moment of your life. You have to discover that within your system there is an inability to pursue anything and have it except you receive Jesus. When you receive the Lordship of Jesus and He becomes your Master that is the first and most important thing.When a creature meet with its Creator that is a turning point in life. It is important to have Jesus in your life because you did not create yourself, you were created by the Creator. Meeting with your Creator becomes easy for you to know why He created you.After you are born again the second important thing that has to happen to you is discovering your purpose. When you have the Lord inside you He then has to communicate and give you information as to why He created you. It is not just the case of Jeremiah, all of us were designed by God the same way. If you follow the order of events in Jeremiah Chapter 1 you will see that even before man was formed it was the plan that was first formed.What first came into existence was not Jeremiah but God s plan for the nations. God had a plan, a strategy and a vision but there was no one present to execute God s vision. When you see the Lord forming or creating Jeremiah He was no longer looking for the vision but the visionary.You have to understand that a vision is much older than the visionary. Your dream is much more mature than the dreamer. The plan for your life was already set in motion before you were formed. What you are actually coming to do is fit into the plan of God that was there before you were even formed.God formed a man for a specific assignment. There was a mission and God needed a person to fulfil that mission. All of us were created by God for a reason and when you find yourself existing, what you were supposed to do first was to look around and see if there is anything you can do.You have to move around assessing the environment and find out why you were formed. Are you able to discover your assignment in the chaos that you see around your life? Within the confusion you see taking place around you, are you able to associate it with your assignment? Can you see your purpose in the confusion that you are going through?An assignment is not given to you but you are given to the assignment. God had a plan before He formed you and you were formulated because of a plan. Finding your purpose is simply finding the reason why God created you. Why are you here? Receiving Jesus in your life and discovering your purpose, those are the two things important in your life. That is a fulfilled life.You were actually formed because of your assignment but it can take some people 70 years or even until they die before they can discover their purposes. Every activity you do on a daily basis you are helping something to fulfil its purpose. Sitting on a chair or answering your phone you are fulfilling the purposes of those gadgets. Look at how many things around you that you have assisted in fulfilling their purposes. Things you use were designed by the manufacturers to bring about the results you are getting.Everything around you, you have assisted it to fulfil its purpose and yet you are the only thing left that is yet to discover its purpose. A man who is yet to discover his purpose is a very dangerous person. Apart from the ability to discover your purpose, time is also given to us by God. You are given time to discover yourself. Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! behold, I cannot speak: for I am a child. (Jeremiah 1:6). In this scripture Jeremiah is confessing immaturity which means our problem is not the size of our vision but our size. Your vision, dream or career is big but it is given to a small person with a small mentality. Though your vision has to mature but what really has to mature is the visionary.You must not be found in a place before your vision is there. A vision, a dream and a purpose has to go way ahead of you before you finally get there. It is amazing how as humans we do not pay attention to ourselves. Humans enjoy discovering every other thing except themselves. Have you ever noticed how much is being spent in discovering new things?People they do not take time to discover themselves. A man can explain to you how a rocket can take off from here and land on the moon. He can even control the rocket but he does not know how to control his temper. We spend more time working on other things and on other people before we can begin to work on ourselves.People claim to know certain individuals inside out which means they took their time in studying other people. The time you spend studying another person if you can utilise that time to study and understand yourself, by now you would have discovered your purpose.Most successful people in life are not into criticising other people. There are people out there who are full-time critics, they are dedicated and to them criticising other people is sort of a purpose. But when you find yourself criticising other people, criticism was a gift given to you by God that was supposed to work for you.You were supposed to criticise yourself and then improve yourself. It then becomes a misdirected gift, using it on other people instead of using it on yourself criticising what you are doing. Successful people are not full-time critics because criticising other people demands time and dedication, you cannot be successful in life if you spend most of your time criticising other people.