Cde KasukuwereHerald Reporter&#8212; THE demonstration against Zanu-PF national commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere is on today in Bindura after several members of the provincial executive recommended his expulsion from the ruling party on allegations of plotting to unconstitutionally unseat President Mugabe. Other provinces are also reported to be open to the idea of passing a no-confidence vote on Cde Kasukuwere whose presidential ambitions are now in the public domain.Also Read&#8230;. Kasukuwere s woes mount Misa Zim, ZUJ slam Kasukuwere EDITORIAL COMMENT: Moyo, Kasukuwere hoist by own petard Kasukuwere defiant, attacks The Herald Kasukuwere et al under fire Differences are not divisions: Kasukuwere Kasukuwere branded dangerous loose cannon He is accused of trying to capture party structures via candidate impositions with the ultimate objective of advocating for an Extraordinary Zanu-PF Congress ahead of next year s harmonised elections to replace the party s President and First Secretary, Cde Mugabe, who has since been endorsed by provinces as the party s sole candidate.Cde Kasukuwere also invited the wrath of Women s League members for allegedly trying to block their countrywide demonstrations against their deputy secretary, Cde Eunice Nomthandazo Moyo, and finance secretary Cde Sarah Mahoka.The league resolved to fire Cdes Nomthandazo Moyo and Mahoka for undermining the authority of Women s League secretary and First Lady Amai Grace Mugabe, with their fate possibly coming up for discussion at this week s Zanu-PF Politburo meeting.Cde Kasukuwere yesterday tried to pre-empt today s demonstration by organising a solidarity march for President Mugabe, but the application for the march was turned down by the police.According to police officials, party members loyal to Cde Kasukuwere wrote a letter to Bindura police requesting permission to hold the march, but the request was dismissed because of another programme which had already been approved.Cde Kasukuwere was also accused of deploying members of the provincial Youth League on Saturday to intimidate people against participating in today s demonstration.The youths include Cdes Isaiah Karina, who is Mashonaland Central Youth League chairman, and Cdes Caleb Mandaza, Helen Mashongonyika, Shumba Nyamangara and an official from the President s Office identified as Ndawara.Sources in Mashonaland Central said at least three quarters of the Members of Parliament in the province had also endorsed the anti-Kasukuwere demonstration. People here are fed up with Cde Kasukuwere and his brother (Cde Dickson Mafios ) leadership. At first, people thought this was going to end, but they have realised that these brothers are up to something, said a member of the provincial executive.Zanu-PF Central Committee member Cde Ephraim Mavhangira told The Herald in an interview that people in Mashonaland Central were fed up with Cde Kasukuwere s style of leadership.He added that he had resisted attempts to force him not to take part in today s demonstration. They tried to intimidate me but I stood my ground, he said. Cde Kasukuwere has been working against the President and it is not the first time that I am saying that. They (youths loyal to Cde Kasukuwere) confronted me but I stood my ground. You (The Herald) are doing a great job because these guys have become a problem, especially for people in Mashonaland Central. Cde Shantel Mbereko, who was forced out of Mashonaland Central provincial structures for refusing to pander to Cde Kasukuwere s whims, said she had received threatening messages. I received text (Short Message Service) messages from people threatening to beat me up if I participate in Monday s demonstrations. One of the messages were sent by a person that identified himself as Nickson and another one who identified himself as Honourable, she said.A member of the Zanu-PF Mashonaland provincial executive who declined to be named said: He (Cde Kasukuwere) is refusing to go down alone. He has employed the services of provincial member Cde Concilia Gonzo and one Jacha to intimidate people not to attend the demonstration. But I can assure you that there will be a huge turnout because people are fed up by Cde Kasukuwere and Cde Mafios leadership. Cde Mafios last year tried to smuggle a resolution to amend the Zanu-PF constitution to bar President Mugabe from appointing his deputies. Cde Kasukuwere, who has in the past refused to talk to The Herald, could not be reached on his mobile phone until late last night.