LONDON. Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger said yesterday his side remain in the race for a top-four English Premier League finish despite the recent slump in form and will look to ensure a positive end to the season. Wenger also said he was pleased that Pep Guardiola had come to realise that fourth place was akin to a trophy in England, as he insisted it was perfectly possible for Arsenal to qualify once again for the Champions League soccer.The North London side, who are sixth in the league and trail fourth-placed Manchester City by seven points, will seek their first victory in four games when they host 14th-placed West Ham United tonight.Arsenal have never finished outside top-four under Wenger, who sees increased importance in finishing with one of the four Champions League qualification spots this season.Wenger had to drive past a handful of fans who want him out of the club as he entered the Arsenal training ground yesterday morning one of whom was wearing a Wenger mask and holding aloft a mock fourth-place trophy. That individual does not attach the same significance as Wenger to a top-four finish but the man himself continued to argue his corner.Guardiola had said last week that qualifying for the Champions League is definitely like winning a trophy . He added: I m not saying that I would prefer it to the FA Cup but it s like winning titles, definitely, because there are so many strong teams. Wenger said: It s a good challenge to finish in the top four this season but I think it s perfectly possible. Certainly for 20 years, I have done it and it looked always like it s nothing. Suddenly, it becomes important, so I am quite pleased that people realise that it s not as easy as it looks, and if you listen to Guardiola, he said the other day that to achieve the top four in England is a trophy, because it s so difficult. We have a difficult task in front of us but I am happy, as well, that people realise suddenly that it s not as easy as it always looked. For 20 years I have done it and it looked nothing. Suddenly now it s important and people realise it is not as easy as it looked. We are fighting to have a positive end of season. That s why you want the fans to stand behind the team. Wenger said defender Laurent Koscielny, who was substituted at half-time during 2-2 draw with Man City on Sunday, suffered an Achilles injury and was set to have a scan later on yesterday. It (the injury) is serious, said Wenger. If he has ruptured the fibres then he could be out for a few weeks, if not, he could be available to face Crystal Palace. I will tell you more tomorrow. Reuters.