Silent KillerVongai Mbara Arts Reporter Upcoming dancehall musician Jimmy Mudereri whose stage name is Silent Killer might be the next big thing in the genre judging from the response his songs have been getting lately. While the trending song in dancehall at the moment is Soul Jah Love s Pamamonya Ipapo which has become an anthem, Silent Killer s song Type Yemadance is also fast gaining ground.Silent Killer is one of the few upcoming dancehall artistes who thrilled fans at the just ended Kinnah birthday bash that was held at Stodart Hall recently. It is a humbling experience to see how people are appreciating my music. I have been playing in different places and the response is encouraging, he said.Mudereri s love for music started when he was still in high school in 2006. However, by then his guardians wanted him to finish school first before anything else. They wanted me to finish school first so I could not pursue my career but to follow their wish, he said.He started recording last year and did a song titled Lock Streets that was popular among dancehall fanatics especially in Mbare.However, it was the song Kubva ku Western that propelled him into limelight.Silent Killer stole people s hearts when a short video clip of him singing on Levels stage riddim went viral on social media.On the clip, the lyricist is seen sitting in the studio while his friends cheer him on while singing the track, Kushaya .Before he knew it, Silent killer was being booked as a supporting act and up to now, he has successfully managed to pull the crowd.Last Friday, Silent Killer shared the stage with Soul Jah Love and Hwindi President at Pick and Save in Mutare. It is always good to share the stage with big musicians like Soul Jah Love. He is the man of the moment right now and as upcoming artistes, we have a lot to take from him, he said.Event organiser Jackie Dzambatsa popularly known as Jack Radics said it was good to have big shows with upcoming musicians and promote them. They need exposure so that they take their works forward. I am sure he is ready to make people believe that he is a star in the future, he said.Apart from that show, Silent Killer has other lined up shows including the Ghetto story that will be held at Takashinga in Highfield.