Martin Robinson Correspondent Creating a culture of speech in your classroom means having everyone doing it, not simply those that are willing &#8211; do not let students hide . (Andrew Fitch, from the book: Trivium in Practice) In a piece for the TES, Jonathan Simons, head of Education for Policy Exchange, wrote about the importance of debating:To debate, participants must analyse complex issues of ethics, law, politics, science . . . it teaches rhetoric, and the ability to stand up and speak in front of an audience. It demands confidence in one s position. It requires teamwork between speakers. It instils general knowledge. It is transformative.Simons also points out that debating has been a central feature of our best universities for centuries. As Petrus Ramus put it in his Dialectica of Invention:What is Dialectica ? A dialectica is the (sic) art of disputing well . . .It is the art of dialectic, that puts questioning, reasoning, critical thinking and logic at the heart of the trivium. These are all essential attributes of a great education and to be able to do them well can help ensure that young people perform well academically and, indeed, socially.It is not enough for schools just to teach knowledge, knowledge is the base of great thinking, but without the practice of using knowledge to challenge and rise to the occasion when challenged, an academic education falters. Argument is key to thinking well.Andrew Fitch, the director of spoken literacy at Highbury Grove School helped coach the England schools debating team that won this year s world debating championships held in Stuttgart. Highbury Grove school, under the leadership of Tom Sherrington, is undergoing the process of putting trivium principles at the heart of the educational offer to their pupils.In the book, Trivium in Practice Andrew Fitch has contributed an excellent short guide for teachers called: Spoken Literacy and Rhetoric in the Classroom . . . In his introduction he writes:. . . using the three part trivium structure, I have utilised debate, in a variety of forms, to ask students to intellectually engage with relevant material through being forced to attack and defend various aspects of the knowledge that they have been given . . . Through argument generation and speech creation, students dialectically engage with the material, developing a familiarity with it beyond the simple stating of facts.Debating competitions and debating societies should be a feature of all good schools. However, most young people will not engage with it until debate features as a part of the everyday curriculum. By having to think clearly and defend or attack an idea, a work, or a philosophy, children will be challenged and, in turn, will understand more about the content of the curriculum and what it means to them and the society of which they are a part.I would go so far as to say by grappling with the playfulness of ideas in this way they will, in turn, become more engaged with the issues they are debating and that can only be a good thing. -martinrobborobinson.wordpress.com