Telecel ZimbabweBusiness Reporter Telecel recently announced a new data, voice and text-package for its Telecel Go pre-paid subscribers. The offering which is known as MegaBoost is a combo bundle with various benefits. The mobile network operator also announced a new sales promotion called Dongle Madness that slashes the price of its data dongle for the month of April.The holiday promotion will give customers a dongle for $20 which will be bundled with 1 gigabyte of data with a validity period of one month. The offer is primarily targeted at students over the school holiday season.Telecel Zimbabwe Communications and Branding Director, Obert Mandimika, said the offer was intended to make the data device more affordable for students as they do pursue their assignments over the holiday period. The Dongle Madness Students Holiday Promotion, as implied by the name, gives students the opportunity to secure a data dongle at $20 bundled with 1 gigabyte of data. Telecel has seen an increased interest and usage of data over the past months and our customers have been requesting for data related offerings and bundles. This Dongle Madness promotion meets the need for more affordable data and devices, said Mandimika.On MegaBoost, Telecel Zimbabwe Head of Marketing, Christopher Rubatika, said the introduction of the package is Telecel s response to the demand for more affordable mobile services for both voice and in particular data. MegaBoost, as the name suggests, is our all-inclusive package which gives our pre-paid customers a much needed boost in terms of making mobile services like data, voice, text and social media access more affordable. MegaBoost is a response to increasing customer requests for affordable mobile services. Telecel has already created a reputation in the market for offering affordable services and for us, MegaBoost promotion is an example of one of our core corporate beliefs which is anchored on offering best value for money through quality affordable services and products, he said. The popular $1 denomination, for example, will give Telecel customers on the MegaBoost package30MB for WhatsApp, 50MB data to surf however one likes, 15 minutes of Telecel-to-Telecel voice calls, 4 minutes of calls to other local networks, and 15 texts all valid for 24 hours. On the high end, $10 will provide unlimited WhatsApp, 1Gig of data, 150 minutes of Telecel-to-Telecel calls, another 25 minutes to call other local networks and 300 SMS all valid for a full month Mr Rubatika added.MegaBoost package will give Whatsapp, data, voice calls and text benefits to Telecel customers who have recharged with 50cents, $1, $2, $5, and $10. Pre-paid customers who recharge for 50cents all the way up to $10 can purchase the MegaBoost bundle by dialling *480#.