Mr MutandiroLloyd Gumbo and Anesu Chakabva Government-owned mobile operator, NetOne has come up with an ambitious project, which will see the company employing thousands of Zimbabweans. Yesterday, thousands of youths thronged the TelOne Training Centre in Harare where the mobile operator was recruiting at least 2 000 brand ambassadors to sell its products and services.NetOne intends to recruit at least 2 000 youths aged between 19 and 35 from each of the country s 10 provinces in the next six months.This will create at least 20 000 jobs.Long queues were the order of the day as some early birds were at the gates as early as 4am.In an interview with The Herald, NetOne acting chief executive officer, Mr Brian Mutandiro said the campaign was part of the parastatal s mission to contribute towards Government s quest to create employment. We seek to complement what the Government is trying to do in the country and for us it is a win-win situation, said Mr Mutandiro. It is not about us getting money from the community but it is also about us employing and giving back to the community in the spirit of employing them. As we employ them, they are going to go out there, market and sell our products so that people can experience our products. The beauty is that we have the most affordable products, we offer the most value in the market. It is more the reason for us to get our products into as many Zimbabwean hands as possible. Mr Mutandiro said they were going to employ at least 2 000 youths in each province.He said they targeted to employ people from some of the remotest parts of the country given its widest coverage. There are degreed people who are coming for the interviews and we are not turning them away. There is actually opportunity for them because we have divided the recruitment into three. We have the normal brand ambassador, who will probably have five Ordinary Levels; we have the captain, who will be the team leader, who will probably have Advanced Level qualifications, and then the Brigadier, who will probably be your degree or diploma person. So everyone has got space. We even have the disabled coming in their numbers and we will definitely consider them. We have code-named this project Operation Basa sebasa and those who will be recruited will be called Orange Brigades, said Mr Mutandiro.Some of the people in the queue who spoke to The Herald said they had arrived at 4am for the interviews.Mr Mutandiro said their network upgrade courtesy of the Government-initiated loan facility from China would help avoid congestion on its network. We do have the capacity to withstand the pressure resulting from the number of people who have joined the network. As you know we were supported by the Government to acquire the loan from China through our mobile broadband expansion. We have base stations across the nation and we boast of the widest coverage in Zimbabwe. Our network team, IT team and technical team are ready to manage this. We are very ready. We applied rigorous project management to make sure this project lands from a cross functional perspective, financially, commercially, technically and so forth, said Mr Mutandiro.