Part of the team from ZimTorqueTafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter It s just three days away before the world premi re of the much awaited movie Fast and Furious 8 . The premier of the movie which will be screened at all Ster Kinekor theatres countrywide would also be used to promote various car shows courtesy of ZimTorque.In line with that, ZimTorque has partnered Ster Kinekor Westgate ahead of the movie premi re.In an interview with ZimTorque member Tanaka Kutama said they were excited about the event. We have partnered Ster Kinekor theatres and the good thing is that we will have a car competition for the modified cars. The initiative is to help motorsport entertainment in Zimbabwe, something big that can even promote and develop tourism. We are calling it car culture. Locals will have a chance to witness our version of the fast and furious as we will showcase great talent and skills using cars, he said.He said the event will see several DJs and drifters among them Selekta Base, Run 263, Speedline and Unik Audio participating in the event. We have lots of prizes to be won from fuel coupons to complimentary tickets for the movie. The event which is dubbed The road to Zimbabwe Auto Festival will be held midday, he said.Kutama said they were going to live stream the event. It s going to be big, just like how other countries are hosting theirs. Our organisation is about guys who love cars hence with Fast and Furious movies suit us very well. Asked if there would be any surprise foreign acts on the car show, Kutama said he was not able to name them, saying it would be a surprise.Meanwhile, Fast and Furious 8 movie is a sequel of the other 7.In the movie, Dom played by Vin Diesel and Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) are on their honeymoon, Brian and Mia have retired from the game, and the rest of the crew have been exonerated, the globe-trotting team has found a semblance of a normal life.But when a mysterious woman seduces Dom back into a world of crime that he can t seem to escape, the crew will face trials that will test them as never before.