Masvingo Bureau Fresh infighting has rocked MDC-T in Masvingo, where senior party officials have started jostling for the Masvingo Urban seat ahead of next year s harmonised elections. Most MDC-T senior officials in the province are reportedly positioning themselves to represent the party in Masvingo Urban, which is believed to be a safe seat by virtue of it being in an urban area that the opposition party regards as its stronghold.Cde Daniel Shumba of Zanu-PF is the Masvingo Urban legislator.The main contenders in the MDC-T are former Masvingo Urban Member of Parliament and prodigal son Mr Tongai Matutu and businessman Mr Takanai Mureyi.Sources in the party recently said Mr Matutu, who defected from the MDC-T and helped found PDP with Mr Tendai Biti, was propelling himself as the right candidate.This has reportedly put him on a collision course with Mr Mureyi, who has been secretly campaigning in Masvingo Urban after migrating from Masvingo West where he lost to Zanu-PF in the 2013 polls.Mr Matutu was ambiguous when reached for comment last week, saying contesting in Masvingo Urban was not his cup of tea. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; That is not my cup of tea at the moment , he said. I cannot do two things at the same time. It must be known that I was re-admitted into the party (MDC-T) recently and that is what I am seized with. Of course, there will always be issues of speculation, more so as I reconnect with party members after coming back into the party. Mr Mureyi said he had a presence in Masvingo Urban soon after the 2013 elections, but refused to confirm his known ambitions. I have been on the ground ( Masvingo Urban) since 2013, and I have put a lot of resources there since then, but our party has not yet made a decision on what will happen , he said. The party will decide. MDC-T Masvingo provincial chairman Mr James Gumbi appeared to support Mr Mureyi s bid.He said, Those who are campaigning are jumping the gun, but one person that I know has been visible on the ground in Masvingo Urban is Mureyi, he said. I do not know about others. The MDC-T did not win any seat in Masvingo in the 2013 harmonised elections.