Hope MasikeMutare Bureau Hope Masike was in her best form at Montclair Resort and Casino in Nyanga when she serenaded fans with her soothing sounds. Her traditional beat stole the night as it brought people from their casino seats towards the stage.She played mbira and traditional drum to everyone s delight.It was a fantastic Easter treat for many fans that thronged the resort for fun and refreshment. I love you all. I am happy to be here and this is the best Easter holiday I have had. I love Nyanga and I am happy to see some fans from Harare here. It is indeed a special event for me. I will always remember this show and I want to come back here again for more fun, she said at the end of her performance.People danced throughout her performance as she showed her versatility with instruments and vocals.She was barefooted and danced like a possessed person as people cheered her up. Her instrumentalists were exceptional and they left people asking for more.The show was an icing on the cake for many people that travelled to Nyanga for the Easter holiday.Many people took their families to the resort and it was fun throughout the weekend. I always come here for Easter. Montclair is my favourite resort. Besides the good view of mountains and good weather here, I also enjoy the hotel s services. It is a good place and the music from Hope has added fun to an exciting holiday, said a fan who identified himself as Garise.Montclair Resort and Casino general manager Brian Nyakutombwa said they always bring musicians to serenade fans during busy holidays. Many musicians have performed here at various occasions. Hugh Masekela came all the way from South Africa to entertain our guests here. We have also hosted the likes of Oliver Mtukudzi, Ammara Brown and Roki among others. We have guests from various parts of the country and we want to keep them entertained, he said. We were happy with the response to our Easter programme. Hope performed here for two days and she made us proud. We are planning to host more of such events and keep our guests entertained. In the afternoon guests went for golf while others enjoyed themselves in the hotel s swimming pool. Some went for horse-rides while others opted to play tennis and volleyball. There were also led to a valley walk that saw many enjoying the beauty of nature.