LONDON. &#8211; Antonio Conte claimed that Chelsea had made a big psychological step after a 4-2 win over Southampton at Stamford Bridge moved the Blues seven points clear of Tottenham at the top of the English Premier League soccer table on Tuesday night. Goals from Eden Hazard, Gary Cahill and a second-half double from Diego Costa earned Conte s men a hard-fought win against a confident and dangerous Saints side, who twice found a way past Thibaut Courtois courtesy of former Chelsea men Oriol Romeu and Ryan Bertrand.The result, secured just days after beating Tottenham by the same scoreline in a thrilling FA Cup semifinal at Wembley, means Chelsea need a maximum of 12 points from their five remaining Premier League fixtures to win the title, and all eyes will now turn to Spurs clash with Crystal Palace on Wednesday. I think that we passed a big, big step, a big psychological step after the defeat against (Manchester) United, Conte said. Because, against United, we lost three points and then you had to prepare a semi-final against Tottenham, and then another tough game in the league. I think that, in that moment, we had a really important test, a psychological test, and our answer was very good. For this reason I must be pleased. But we must think this race is open. We reached the final in the FA Cup, which is a great incentive for us. But the other competition, the league, is totally open. But I think we are ready to fight until the end. Then we must be proud for our job, for what we are doing this season. But now it s normal that we have to try to push until the end to keep this position. Costa wrapped up the win with his first English Premier League goals since March 6. The Spain international s performances in recent weeks have attracted widespread criticism, but after Tuesday night s match Conte insisted that he never lost faith in his top scorer. It s normal for the strikers that it is important to score, Conte said of Costa. The goal is their life. But, for me, I ve always said I ve been pleased with his commitment, his work for the team. He always worked for the team. Sometimes he was unlucky in different circumstances, but I was always confident about him. After the Tottenham game, I said I m sure he s keeping his goals for the final weeks of the season. Now he must continue. He s very important for us. His confidence is very important for us. He scored two very important but also beautiful goals, with good combination and technique between him and his teammates. Conte grew increasingly irate on the touchline as a succession of Southampton corners caused panic in the Chelsea defence, and at one point in the second half kicked an equipment bag in frustration. In this moment I wanted to kick the ball, and I took the bag as a ball, he explained. Sometimes, believe me, I want to play. I want to play, to kick the ball. But I know that if I kick the ball, the referee will probably send me off . . . only for this. &#8211; ESPN.