Hazvinei ChihotaVongai Mbara Arts Reporter The Black Opal Face of Zimbabwe competition has begun scouting for this year s beauty queen ahead of the grand finale set for September. This year s competition is different from the previous competitions because it will not only award the first winner but the second and third winners as well. The winner who will automatically become the brand ambassador will walk away with $5 000 grand prize and will get skincare and cosmetics supply for a year.The second and third winners will also get cash prizes of $2 000 and $1 000 respectively. Speaking in an interview, BOFOZ project manager, Tanaka Ngorora said the competition is open to all ladies over the age of 18 who will be able to represent the brand. We believe in everyone so we are not focusing on height and weight. It is more of a beauty competition. It is not about perfection but the beauty of women nationwide. The Black Opal brand is known for transforming not only a person s look but also people s lives. We are looking for someone who is confident and can represent and sell the brand, she said.This year s theme is All Eyes on Me and to enter into the competition, aspiring contestants must buy any one Black Opal eye product, and attach an A6 close-up photograph, receipt and entry form then submit to any Black Opal counter Nationwide.These eye products include eye shadow, eye liner, mascara, brow shaper and concealer.Entries are open until the May 16 and every month an internal panel of judges will select the top three contestants who will then be published on www.blackopalzim.com and on social media.A total of twelve contestants will be chosen of which three of them will be winners. For this year s edition, we are looking for 12 finalists. Any interested lady above 18 is eligible to compete, she said.The finalists will go on a boot camp where they will engage in physical activities, as well as learn how to be to be confident.The selection criteria for the winners will be 50 percent from in-house judges and 50 percent from voters who will vote for their favourite contestant through an SMS platform.Last year Hazvinei Chihota was crowned queen of Face of Zimbabwe.