MANCHESTER. &#8211; Antonio Conte conceded Tottenham Hotspur have the momentum to be the English Premier League soccer champions after falling to old foe Jose Mourinho at Old Trafford on Sunday. A 2-0 defeat by Manchester United &#8211; their second loss in four matches left the Blues only four points ahead of Tottenham with six games remaining.Conte says he is worried that Spurs, who have now won six on the bounce, now have the momentum in the run-in and could inflict further psychological damage on his side by beating them in their FA Cup semi-final at Wembley on Saturday.He said: It won t be easy because Tottenham are now the best team. They are in good form and playing with enthusiasm &#8211; we must find the same. They are feeling the possibility to write history and it is important to know this. I have concern because we have to work together and quickly find the right ambition to win this title. If someone thinks it s normal for Chelsea to win the title, they must remember we started as underdogs after 10th place last season. And six finals await Chelsea in the English Premier League run-in after their 2-0 loss at Manchester United that leaves their title chances at only 50 percent , Conte said.Having hoped to re-establish a seven-point lead over second-place Tottenham Hotspur, Chelsea s advantage remains four points following Sunday s defeat at Old Trafford.They remain in the driving seat and will face only one top-seven side &#8211; Everton &#8211; in their last six games, but Conte suggested his team can no longer be considered outright favourites. We have to think that there are six finals from now until the end, said the Italian, who was without goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois due to injury and wing-back Marcos Alonso due to a virus. The league is open and we have a 50 percent probability to win the league. Conte accepted that his team deserved to lose and said the outcome of the match was his fault for failing to sufficiently motivate his players.But in a pointed reference to Chelsea s struggles last season under Mourinho, now the United manager, he said his team s quest for the title deserved to be considered a miracle . I prefer to fight for the title instead of don t fight for the title and stay calm. The pressure is normal and we are lucky to have the pressure, said Conte. Last season Chelsea had no pressure; 10th place and you play calm, you are happy. We must understand this, that (something) really important is happening this season because we are doing a great job and a miracle if you consider last season and the problems we had. For this reason we must have great enthusiasm to play these last six games. If we win, we must be proud. Otherwise we must clap another team. &#8211; AFP.