Thupeyo Muleya Beitbridge Bureau One person was killed, while two others were injured in a head-on collision involving a VW Jetta and a bus in the Mazunga area, about 60 kilometres from Beitbridge, along the Beitbridge-Bulawayo Road on Sunday morning. It is reported that 64 passengers who were in the South African-registered Delta bus escaped unhurt, while the now deceased and the injured were travelling in the VW Jetta. The bus was travelling to Bulawayo, while the private car was heading towards Beitbridge.Matabeleland South police spokesperson Inspector Philisani Ndebele said they suspected the accident to be a direct result of in-attention and speeding on both parties.He identified the deceased as Mmongameli Mpofu (44), who resides in Silobela, under chief Simana. Indications are that the two vehicles were travelling in opposite directions and they had a head-on collision at the 60 kilometre peg along the Beitbridge-Bulawayo Road, said Insp Ndebele. As a result, Mpofu died instantly while two other passengers were injured. Those from the bus were unhurt. The man s body has been taken to Beitbridge District Hospital mortuary pending a post-mortem, while the injured are admitted at the same hospital. Insp Ndebele said they were worried with the recurrence of road carnages, mainly those resulting from human error. He said the police were out in full force to deal with traffic offenders during the Easter holidays.Insp Ndebele warned motorists against driving unroadworthy vehicles and to always exercise caution to avoid the unnecessary loss of life. We are aware there are people who, during major holidays, try their luck by bringing unroadworthy vehicles on the roads, he said. Let them be warned that they risk prosecution and that we will impound all those kind of vehicles. The stretch along the Bulawayo-Beitbridge Road, where the accident occurred has become a death trap because of the bad state of the road.Over 10 people we killed in spate of accidents along that stretch last year.