Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God. For I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith. Romans 12:1-3Today I will talk to you about the most important tool God gave to humanity, the mind. How you think determines how far you can go in life.However, as a child of God you need not just think naturally. We serve a living and supernatural God. He does the impossible. What is impossible with men is possible with God. All we need is to believe Him and His Word. O hallelujah! Think supernaturally.2017 is the year of restoration, may God also restore our minds. We need to operate in the mind of Christ. If you are reading this article and thinking about deserting your spouse, thinking about ending your life, quitting on your dream or whatever negative force dominating you now change your thinking.You must be supernaturally powered. The economy of the world should not limit you.People who think about failure always fail. Those who think about dying also die.People who think about being sick fall sick.Refuse to think naturally as the world. Think supernaturally. What kills you is your mind. Not many people voice their thoughts, but refuse negative thinking.You are not poor because you are poor, no, you are poor because you think you are poor. You think you have nothing. But from today shake yourself and tell yourself from today I will begin to think and see supernaturally!Don t think as the world. Change your mind! But Bishop how? You change your mind by having it renewed by God s Word! The word of God is powerful more than you can imagine. It is sharper than any two edged sword!Where they said you will die the word says you live to declare the goodness of the Lord forever!Where they say you are nobody, the word says you are seated with Christ in heavenly places! Where they said your marriage is crumbling the Word says what God has joined let no man put asunder.Where the medical report says your body is fast deteriorating with an incurable disease, the Word says by his stripes ye were healed.Where they say you will suffer financially and be impoverished with your family, the Word says silver and gold belongs to your father and above all he wishes that you prosper and be in good health.Where they say juju is being initiated against you, the Word says no weapon formed against you shall prosper.O hallelujah, I like the Word, it transforms and renews our minds.Be renewed, be transformed. You are not a beggar, you are not poor. Tell yourself I am a ruler, I am a creature of dominion. I am somebody. I declare decrees that come to pass! I declare in Jesus name that in this year supernaturally God is going to provide everything I desire; physically, spiritually, and every area of my life. God is going to provide for me.What is mine is mine. Good health is mine, prosperity is mine.Declare, declare, and declare. Declare for yourself, for your children, your family, your nation, your workplace, everything about you.When you declare your mind will align and adapt to the words of your mouth and so will your life flow in the same direction.As a man thinketh in his mind so is he. Open your mouth pray and declare what the Word of God says about you. For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27.