Naledi Sande Arts Reporter Veteran township jazz musician, Tanga Enerst Sando, popularly known as Tanga Wekwa Sando, has bounced back with a new album which he is optimistic will bring him back on the limelight. After releasing his latest titled Knock Knock last month, the Paidamoyo hit-maker is ready to storm the big stage again.In an interview, Tanga WekwaSando who is going to be performing at Bar Rouge every Wednesday starting today said his sabbatical from the public scene is now over. It is true I have been quiet for some time now but the truth is I have never stopped doing music. I never stopped writing songs but it is only that I have been focusing on private functions and I am happy to be back, he said.Commenting on his Wednesday shows that are dubbed Sundowners , Tanga Wekwa Sando said the shows are meant to give people time to lighten up during the mid week. The Sundowners is a show that is meant for people who go to work to have some time to lighten up during the week and we are going to have the shows throughout the year. I am happy that I am going to have time with my fans whom I have missed. I will have interaction shows where I will play my new songs as well as the old ones, he said.Tanga Wekwa Sando gained popularity after releasing his debut album Wake in 2000.Meanwhile, Club Veritas in Westlea has also launched Wednesday shows for musicians to mix and mingle with their fans.Dubbed Friends with artists the event will see musicians mixing with their fans before and after shows.Tonight Talking guitars, Gary Tight, Pauline, Buhle and Blessing make a date with their fans at the launch of the mid-week event.Club owner Edward Mutukwa said it was proper for artistes to mix with their fans at such events. We have such events so that we give musicians time to meet and talk with their fans. We are launching a boozers team, Veritas, and on Thursday we will be unveiling the kit. Friday has been given to Bontoman and we are aiming to do the best for both upcoming and established musicians, he said.