Orange Groove Motel entranceLifestyle Writer Since Chinhoyi University of Technology took over Orange Groove Motel, a lot has changed. The university takes tourism as one of the pillars of its various programmes and the expansion has changed leisure time in Chinhoyi.For many years, the university ran its own CUT Hotel that has been offering excellent services and when the opportunity for another investment in the hospitality industry came, they took over Orange Groove Motel.The motel was previously run by a private company, which left the place in December 2014 and CUT re-opened it in March 2015.It is now two years after the take-over and CUT Public Relations and Marketing manager Zororo Marangwanda is happy with how the facility has changed leisure in Chinhoyi. Tourism is one of our major focuses and we are happy that the take-over of Orange Groove Motel has brought something different to this community, said Marangwanda. This is a community motel and people from this area love it. Besides services that we offer in terms of accommodation, we have facilities that make it exciting for people from this area to come here. They can come and have drinks and braai by the swimming pool side. They can also come and have fun with their families in the children s playing area at the place. It has been a good time since we took over and we are doing more renovations to make the place more appealing. People from this community can also come and have weddings in our gardens and we have had many weddings here. Marangwanda said people from outside the community usually come for accommodation and camping. We have a camping area where people come with their caravans and have leisure time. Our rooms are sometimes oversubscribed, especially when we have conferences here. There are many companies that choose our place for conferences and we are happy to accommodate them. We also share a lot with our sister company, CUT Hotel and we are happy to say students that are studying tourism have local places for their practical work. We will soon be expanding to other areas, but our excitement at the moment is in changing leisure life in Chinhoyi. Many other projects are taking place and we will announce them soon. 