Minister, Abednigo NcubeFrom Noah Pito in Magunje The Minister of Rural Development, Promotion and Preservation of National Culture and Heritage Cde Abednico Ncube yesterday commissioned Birimahwe piped water scheme in Magunje that will see more than 250 rural households accessing clean water in ward 11. Speaking during the commissioning ceremony held at Birimahwe Primary School, Cde Ncube said since water played a pivotal role in the socio-economic development of the country, Government had always prioritised the provision of clean and safe water to rural areas through the Rural WASH Programme.He said even the Constitution of Zimbabwe recognised water as a right for all citizens. Critical to note is the fact that women play a pivotal role in the use, management and protection of water resources and should, therefore, be involved fully in the decision making process at all levels, he said. There is a disproportionate burden placed on women and the girl child when fetching water, the challenge which this scheme is going to address. Cde Ncube said if local authorities failed to provide basic social services like water, roads and sanitation, there would be no development to talk about in the country. In the same way council is accountable to communities for services provided, the local authority is a designated water service authority with the role to ensure efficient, affordable and sustainable access to water services to all communities under its jurisdiction, he said. In that regard (Hurungwe Rural District) council owns and manages rural water supplies and sanitation assets such as this piped water scheme and is, therefore, expected to carry out major maintenance work beyond the scope of the community. The council is also supposed to budget for the various WASH infrastructure in the district. Cde Ncube urged HRDC to put in place a water point committee that would manage the water project before thanking HRDC, councillors, the traditional leadership for assisting in the success of the project which was established at a cost of $36 000. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to commend the collaboration between the national action Committee on Rural Wash, UNICEF, Farm Community Trust and Hurungwe Rural District Council for the success of the project, he said.The project is serving five villages and Birimahwe Primary School.The community assisted in the project through the trenching of the 3,5-kilometre pipeline and the construction of head works for water points.The event was attended by Chiefs Chanetsa, Dendera, Nyamhunga, Dandawa, Mudzimu and Chundu and Government departments.