Killer ZivhuHerald Reporter Zimbabwe Amalgamated Housing Association director Dr Killer Zivhu has challenged Norton legislator Temba Mliswa to substantiate his claims that his organisation swindled home seekers. Speaking at a Press conference on Friday, Dr Zivhu had no kind words for Mliswa, whom he said had made himself the ultimate authority in Norton. Dr Zivhu s organisation is developing housing stands in the Galloway part of Norton, where a number of beneficiaries have already built houses on stands going up to more than 2 000 square metres.Mliswa gave interviews to online publications last week in which he accused Dr Zivhu of duping home seekers, but did not provide evidence to back his utterances.Dr Zivhu said Mliswa was talking about issues he was not privy to. For us, Temba Mliswa, whom we view as a barking baboon in the hills of Norton, is seeking relevance for the wrong reasons, he said. Mliswa was deported from the UK after swindling people in a visa scam and a credit card scam and he thinks everyone behaves the same way. Dr Zivhu said it was not proper that Mliswa, as the MP for Norton, was terrorising everyone in the constituency. The broke Temba is interfering with everyone, terrorising council officials, council workers, councillors, housing developers, street cleaners everyone, he said. He claims he is the highest office in Norton. He should go to hell and burn together with the devil. Dr Zivhu said in the case of Galloway, his association availed affordable stands in an effort to ensure people had access to housing in line with provisions of the Zim-Asset economic blueprint.The stands were being sold at $5 per square metre, when in most cases they started being sold around $18 per square metre.At least 1 500 people have benefited from the stands, which are the same size as those found in most low-density suburbs.Dr Zivhu said they were almost completing the servicing of the stands, with development having reached the stage where beneficiaries were allowed to start building by the council. We have constructed the best roads which only need final touches, we have already put electricity poles and very soon electricity will be available, while most areas now have running water, he said.Dr Zivhu said the development was slowed when Zaha lost $1,5 million to Allied Bank owned by Economic Planning and Investment Promotion Minister Dr Obert Mpofu which went burst.He said they were in the process of approaching the High Court in a bid to recover the money. Zaha is a trust and our mandate is to help people, not to make profit, said Dr Zivhu. That is why we have been helping people all over, sending them to school, sending them to hospitals outside the country for complicated ailments. We have also built houses for the elderly and widows. This is why we have been availing these residential stands at such a low cost. Dr Zivhu said he was going to seek go-ahead from his party, Zanu-PF, to challenge Mliswa in Norton in the harmonised elections set for next year.He said he had a good working relationship with residents of Norton because of the projects he availed such as the Galloway housing scheme, which benefited the people.In his interviews to the online publications, Mliswa made false statements that First Lady Dr Grace Mugabe officiated at the launch of the Galloway residential stands, in a bid to bring her name into the matter.