Tafadzwa MukaroTawanda Marwizi Lifestyle Correspondent Growing up in a closed environment at Hartzel Mission, gospel musician Tafadzwa Mukaro found solace in music when she could not regularly link with the outside world. When she finally went to Africa University for her studies she met several musicians from different countries and her passion also grew.But she felt it was not enough for her as the other singers only assisted her in penning some of her songs that featured on her albums.When she got married and relocated to Harare, she thought of broadening her art and ventured into visual art as a painter.Mukaro, however, got encouraged by her husband Wisdom to revisit her passion in music. He encouraged me to be in the studio in 2014, and we recorded our first album, she said. She was encouraged by the response of the album Mwari Anesu that had song Mhinduro that became the second on StarFM Gospel Greats Final Top 50. We have been working on singles with different beats to do the best for our fans. I take my time to compose songs so that I do not come with same beats, she added.She spoke about her career and how she does her things. I pray first and then I get the melody and the lyrics and after that I take it to my husband. We discuss about the song before I go to the recording, she said.The soft-spoken gospel singer said her husband has been very supportive.Recently she released a single Ndashanda and she is encouraged by the response of the album. The message in the song is about the day-to-day struggles experienced by people to make ends meet. With all the struggles, people must know that God sustains us by giving us strength and blessing the work of our hands, she said.She said she is comfortable working with different producers in the country to bring different products.Though she is in the other world of art, she is happy that she mastered well the dynamics of music industry. I discovered my musical talent at an early phase in life, but I never knew it would take centre stage, as it is doing right now in my life, she said.She said it was good that people have since accepted her music but bemoaned piracy saying it affects the lifestyle of several musicians.Backed by her Faith Movers band, Mukaro continues to hone her skills with live performances at functions such as weddings, church gatherings and corporate events.She is well-known for gospel hits including Mhinduro , Kupisirira Kune Zuva , Tinomurumbidza , and Munamato Unesimba .Asked if she would not abandon her visual to arts music she said she would balance the two. Art is something that comes from God and whenever you feel that you need to say something to Christians you can say it through music or paintings, she said.