Cde MafiosTendai Mugabe in Bindura The call for the expulsion of Zanu-PF national political commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere and his half-brother Cde Dickson Mafios escalated yesterday after the Mashonaland Central provincial coordinating committee endorsed a petition by party members in the province advocating their sacking. This comes just a day after the provincial executive council also endorsed the same petition.Cdes Kasukuwere and Mafios are being accused of plotting to topple President Mugabe and fanning factionalism, among other charges.Speaking to journalists after the PCC at the party provincial headquarters in Bindura yesterday, Zanu-PF deputy provincial chairperson for Mashonaland Central Cde Kazembe Kazembe said: We are not removing anything. The petition has to be submitted to His Excellency as it is. There was also an issue that was raised by the PCC of party members, who were either suspended or expelled unfairly whom we have to engage. Some of them are sitting on the fence and are not undertaking any party activity. The PCC said we should look at those issues with a view to re-admit those people in the party. Cde Kazembe said the party s restructuring exercise had temporarily stopped in the province after some of the data capturing computers went missing.Said Cde Kazembe: On restructuring, the PCC said work has stopped because some of the computers are missing. There is still some confusion on the matter. As you can see there is enthusiasm and people really love Zanu-PF, but we just need to put our house in order. Going forward from what I saw, Zanu-PF will no longer be the same again. What we only need in Zanu-PF is unity. After the petition was endorsed by the PCC, the procedure is to submit it to the national leadership.Cde Nicholas GocheYesterday s PCC was attended by provincial heavy weights such as war veterans leader in Mashonaland Central Cde Sam Parirenyatwa, former Politburo member Cde Nicholas Goche and provincial secretary for security Cde Monica Mavhunga, among other high ranking officials.The petition against Cdes Kasukuwere and Mafios was drafted by party members who demonstrated in Bindura on Monday, expressing concern over the leadership of the pair.The petition was handed over to the party s provincial leadership for onward submission to President Mugabe and the Politburo for further action.On Monday, President Mugabe expressed concern on how Cde Kasukuwere s case was being handled.