Antonio ConteLONDON. &#8211; Antonio Conte has warned his Chelsea team to keep their heads against Jose Mourinho s motivated Manchester United when the teams meet at Old Trafford on Sunday. Tension between Conte and Mourinho boiled over in the recent FA Cup clash at Stamford Bridge, where Chelsea won 1-0, Ander Herrera was sent off and the crowd labelled the United manager Judas .Mourinho subsequently declared Judas is number one until another Chelsea manager wins more than his three English Premier League soccer titles with the club.Chelsea head to Old Trafford seven points clear of Tottenham with seven games to go in the league.Conte said: For us it s very important always to control our emotion, because we are playing and fighting to win the title. For sure, this game will be a tough game but we are ready to play. I think United for sure will have good motivation, because they are playing against Chelsea. Every team will want to beat us. For Conte, the clue was as much in what he did not say as what he did after his Chelsea team had maintained their relentless march towards the Premier League title. His record against Mourinho this season stands at two wins out of two but, amid the distraction during both those matches of the super heavyweight touchline clash, the lingering tension remains obvious.Mourinho pointedly noted after the FA Cup defeat that Judas is still No.1 in reference to his three Premier League titles after he was barracked by a section of Chelsea fans but Conte apparently has no interest in heaping further compliments on the self-styled Special One.Asked on Saturday how much respect he had for Mourinho s past history at Chelsea, Conte simply feinted past what was an open goal to offer some complimentary soundbites. I have already replied to this question before the FA Cup game, he said. He was more expansive, though, in warning his players that they must overcome the emotion that will inevitably accompany a trip to Old Trafford to face their former manager. The most important thing is on the pitch, said Conte. For us, it s always important to control our emotion because we are playing and fighting to win the title. &#8211; Mailonline.