Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter ZIFA Northern Region Division One side Cranborne Bullets received a morale-booster ahead of their crunch tie against Chegutu Pirates at One Commando this afternoon. The army side yesterday received a full kit from financial institution FMC and The Copier Parts.The donation is worth $7 100.Coach Nesbert Saruchera said the gesture will go a long way to inspire his men. I hope this will boost our confidence as a team coming from a defeat, he said. We are looking forward to positive results as we know Chegutu were also defeated last week and we are expecting a tough encounter. We have been working on our finishing in the past week and I hope we will get it right this time. The occasion was graced by former Black Rhinos chairman Justin Mujaji who was the guest of honour. I am very humbled to see this team partnering these two companies who have come at the right time as we have just started the season, said Mujaji. As the army we are happy that the team now has tracksuits, home and away soccer jerseys, football boots, cones and satchels. I believe this will give them a good morale to challenge for the championship this year. Northern Region Division One chairman Willard Manyengavana praised the association and praised both companies for the kind gesture.FMC were represented by Ranga Mavhunga.Northern Region FixturesTodayGolden Valley v Kariba Waves (Rimuka), chitungwiza Municipality v Mufakose United (Chibuku), cranborne Bullets v Chegutu Pirates (Commando), Blue Swallows v Harare City Cubs (Manyame), Trojan Stars v Banket United (Trojan Mine), Shamva v ZRP FC (Shamva), Karoi United v Makwiro Platinum (Chikangwe), Darwin v Herentals (Pfura).TomorrowZRP Morris v Mushowane Stars (Morris Depot)Central Region FixturesTodayToday Chrome Stars v Kwekwe Stars (Chrome), ivan Hoe Mine v Nitchrut (Amqaveni), Makusa v Border Strikers (Makusha), Blanke3t Mine v Whawha (Munyati), Gwanda United v Vumbachikwe (Pelandaba), TelOne v Silo United (Wilson Fields)m MSU v FC Platinum U-19 (MSU).Southern Region FixturesChiwororo v Mosi Rovers (white City), Boso 90 v Nullawayo Chiefs (White City), Indhlovu Iyanyathela v Zim Leopards (Brad Barrcks), Amagagasi v Talen vision (Chinotimba).