Minister ChikwinyaCollen Murahwa Herald Reporter Government has appointed an Anti-Domestic Violence Council to stop the scourge of domestic violence through monitoring and implementing the Domestic Violence Act. The 12-member council includes traditional leaders, Government officials and members of the civil society.Minister of Women s Affairs, Gender and Community Development, Nyasha Eunice Chikwinya said the appointments were precipitated by the increase in cases of domestic violence which has seen families disintegrate. Each day I read gruesome stories of spouses dying in the hands of their loved ones, and a lot of many other sad experiences which could have been avoided, she said. I was eagerly waiting for this day to have a council in place to assist my ministry to address the scourge of domestic violence. The members that I am appointing today have a huge task to ensure that the Domestic Violence Act is not just a piece of paper but its provisions are translated to action, she added.Speaking at the same occasion, United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Country Representative Mr Cheikh Cisse said issues of domestic violence have significantly increased, hence the need for vigorous action. The Zimbabwe Demographic and Health Survey for 2015 confirms that violence against women and girls remains a huge problem, he said. We know that for example at least one in every three women have experienced physical violence since the age of 15. I would like to greatly encourage the council to boldly take its coordinating role in dealing with domestic violence issues with a vision to eliminate it in Zimbabwe. Members of the commission are; Assistant Commissioner Dadela Bonongwe, Air Commodore Ivan Dumba, Ekenia Chifamba, George Nyathi, Virginia Muwanigwa, Eunice Njovana, Mable Msika, Agnes Mufukare, Grace Maramba, Caleb Mutandwa, Leobah Chiperesa and a Dr B Madzima.Chief Pashu (George Nyathi) added that society suffers from cultural vices such that it is taboo for a woman to stand against man s domination. We need to invigorate our culture in order to eradicate violence that is imposed on women all in the name of culture, he said. Even in education, society has created systematic violence in the sense that there are inferior jobs certified for women. 