ZOL CEO Denny Marandure caught sharing a lighter moment with ICT Minister Supa Mandiwanzira at the ZOL annual launch where ZOL unveiled a Safe Surf solution. Safe Surf is designed to promote internet safety for minors and offer a secured home internet experienceZOL has only one mission and that is to deliver simple and useful solutions that improve the way our customers live, work and play. We believe that everyone has the right to be connected, to live like this. So, we have come up with at least 5 ways in which our ZOL Fibroniks could enhance the quality of your home life. If the following points don t apply to your home life currently, we think you deserve more and we are prepared to ensure that you get to live like this.Home entertainment varietyInternet access in the home means you can enjoy a broad range of Internet TV options such as: streaming from HD TV sites like YouTube and Netflix, watching live TV feeds, accessing video on demand and movies. You can also stream music from sites such as SoundCloud, the entertainment options are endless. With speeds of up to 100megabytes per second (mpbs), it s a no brainer that ZOL Fibroniks will completely transform your home life. In case any sports enthusiast feels they might be deprived of their favourite sports channels, let s be clear. Opting for Internet TV does not mean that one will forfeit enjoyment of their cherished sports channels because there are many Internet TV options where one can catch whatever game they want to view online. . . and of course, in real time!Round-the-clock connectivityThe need to stay connected cannot be overemphasised so having a reliable and fast home Internet connection is increasingly becoming a necessity. In most families, almost each member owns a gadget and they need their gadgets to communicate and connect via whatever platform they wish to. Home Internet means shared benefits for all the occupants regardless of what their Internet usage may be &#8211; whether it is WhatsApping or posting social media updates, or sending emails or online gaming or live streaming shows or making calls over the Internet (for which we highly recommend our ZOLphone).Add to that the fact that having home Internet means being able to get your work done remotely and conveniently. Typically, as the month progresses, there is less money to spare so being able to cover your Internet expenses in advance means you have one less thing to worry about. Instead of having each gadget-owning member of the family incurring separate bills to connect, you can invest in home internet.For a fixed, monthly prepaid cost starting from $29, the whole family can stay connected round-the-clock with ZOL Fibroniks &#8211; home and away.Fibroniks on the go: Internetaccess home and awayFibroniks on the Go is exclusive to ZOL and it allows you to use your Fibroniks bandwidth at over 300 ZOLspots around the country. This means you can enjoy Internet access through your home Fibroniks subscription even when you are away from home. In case you are hesitant to sign up for home Internet because you are never home , rest assured that Fibroniks on the Go will let you enjoy your Internet access home and away. Moreover, you can create User IDs for friends and family to access your home internet from any ZOLspot, staying connected has never been simpler. You certainly deserve to live like this.Enhance your children s andyour own digital literacyNowadays, the educational curricular can easily be outpaced by technology because new modes of learning and teaching are being introduced by technology. Whilst you might not be able to instantaneously upgrade the school s curricular, you can help your children to become digitally literate and acquire self-taught skills online. It is not just the educational curricular that can become outdated, business practices and sectoral knowledge is also changing as cutting edge innovations are introduced. With a fast and reliable home connection, you can also improve your own knowledge of the sector you are in and keep up to date with the latest technological advancements that could impact your business, your career and your sector. The bottom line is that Internet access in the home can empower every member of the family, and with ZOL Fibroniks, you can achieve this from as little as $29 per month.Convenience, thy name is Fibroniks&#8230;Having fast, reliable and affordable ZOL Fibroniks-enabled home Internet access is ultimately a matter of convenience. It is about being able to shop, bank and transact online from the comfort of your home without incurring extra charges on any mobile device. Each family member can simply get home, deactivate their mobile data and use the home wifi to save on costs. When they are away from home they can switch to any ZOLspot in their vicinity, again saving on extra costs. ZOL Fibroniks packages come with FREE installation, a FREE a cordless phone, complimentary minutes, FREE ZiNumber to ZiNumber calls (all 08677 numbers) and a ZOL Fibroniks modem including insurance. This means that the full benefits of enjoying the enhanced home life you deserve (and this is worth repeating) can be enjoyed for at least $29 per month.