Lloyd MutasaGrace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter DYNAMOS coach Lloyd Mutasa is hoping that the work permit for his Cameroonian forward Joel Christian Epoupa Ntouba comes out before tomorrow s game against Triangle so that the expatriate brings in a new dimension to their attack. The Glamour Boys are likely to come up against their former skipper Stephen Alimenda, who has been drafted into the Triangle squad and appointed vice-captain.Alimenda was one of the players off-loaded by Mutasa during the close season.The DeMbare coach wants his Cameroonian to feature tomorrow. We are expecting that his work permit may come out before the weekend match and there is a high possibility that he may play in Triangle. Christian is an impact player and his introduction should immediately change the fortunes of the team. We have seen what he does around other players and we know what he is capable of. Only this other day during a practice match he created three goals within 60 minutes, he is thirsty for action and is disappointed that he hasn t started playing yet. We saw the grey areas in that match (against FC Platinum) and we have been working on that. We never scored a goal but we have been trying to rectify that at training this week, said Mutasa.The coach, who is still juggling his players to come up with his best XI, is likely to make some changes to the team which hosted FC Platinum at the National Sports Stadium last weekend.He introduced a number of new faces such as Quality Kangadze, Emmanuel Mandiranga, Gift Saunyama and Lincolin Zvasiya.Players such as Masimba Mambare, Valentine Ndaba and Carlos Rusere were on the bench. We might have changes here and there and one or two inclusions from the set-up that played FC Platinum. The team is coming up, new players are doing well, said Mutasa. What is important is coming up with a winning team on any given day. Everybody wants three points but it is not going to be easy. Playing Triangle at home will always be a difficult match. We have done our part and hope we will execute it on Sunday. Last year, DeMbare picked four points against the Sugar Boys.But Alimenda is now waiting in ambush. The game against DeMbare on Sunday will be like any other game, it has been long since I last played against them but I know that they are a huge club, said the midfielder. Considering Dynamos history, I rate them as a powerhouse of Zimbabwean football but what I know is that we both have chances of winning, the game will start on 0-0 and with our fans rallying behind us, I don t see anything that can stop us from collecting maximum points. I have been a leader at one of the biggest clubs in the country and it s a new challenge here at Triangle and I like it. Alimenda denied reports that his contact was not extended due to disciplinary issues at Dynamos, but said both parties failed to agree terms. How can a captain be ill-disciplined? How then are you going to lead others when you don t have this most important leadership quality? Had we agreed terms with Dynamos, I should have been coming to play against Triangle on Sunday. I think I made a right move though because Triangle are more organised and they are very ambitious, he added.