Forest Hills gives services that complement the natural beauty of the placeTawanda Marwizi Lifestyle Correspondent Vumba s beautiful story is incomplete if the name Leopard Rock is not mentioned.Though the place has managed to lure several tourists who come to enjoy holidays in the place, there are surrounding places that are worth mentioning. Forest Hills is one such place that gives services that complement the natural beauty of the place.Located 30 kilometres from Mutare, the place gives visitors comfort as they enjoy flora and fauna.Geographical location of the rooms gives visitors an overview of mountains, dams and some parts of Mozambique.They can see part of Lake Chikamba that is in Mozambique from the rooms.Merrymakers are spoilt for choice as the place has executive rooms and chalets.For the chalets people can cook for themselves as they have everything that is needed by families.They can accommodate at least four people that can bring their own food.The chalets are decorated with nice sitting rooms, dining rooms and kitchens that have almost everything that a family needs to cater for itself.Manager of the place Patrick Muponda said they have that option so that visitors can prepare their own food. People have different cultures, different tastes of food and with the chalets they can bring their own food and get accommodated as families, he said.He said it was good that people like the set-up and have been coming as families. These places are good for families and that is why we have that set up. We are glad that most visitors like the set up, he said.Their executive rooms give visitors a fine stay as they complement the flora and fauna in the place.Muponda said they wanted to provide the best accommodation to give visitors a good stay during their visit to the mountains. The geographical location of this place need us to work hard on our rooms. They have to complement the natural beauty outside, he said.Forest Hills resort is located adjacent to Vumba Botanical gardens a place that gives people time for pictures.It is also situated few metres away from Mountain Chinakwaremba that gives people an overview of Zimbabwe and Mozambique. As you can see that the mountain is few metres away from this place so people can go there and have an overview of Vumba and Mozambique, he said.Director of the place said they were expanding it and they are constructing another big arena meant for weddings and conferences. Our conference room does not have the capacity of hosting big conferences so we are working on that, he said.He added that they were making efforts to maintain the place so that tourists get the best from it. We want tourists to get the best from this place and we have tried our best to maintain it, he said.