Oprah-WinfreyBefore Henrietta Lacks died of cervical cancer in 1951, doctors at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore removed some of her cancerous cells to grow outside her body in a petri dish. Dubbed HeLa, the cell line from the 31-year-old African-American woman became one of the most utilised in medical research, helping establish billion-dollar biomedical industries around the world for cancer treatment, vaccines including Johan Salk s polio inoculation and even in-vitro fertilisation.It was all done without her knowledge or consent. Struggling with poverty and racism in Baltimore, Lacks s family discovered the truth accidentally years later. Writer Rebecca Skloot s subsequent account, The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, rocketed to public attention earlier this decade, spending 75 weeks on the New York Times paperback non-fiction best-seller list, and prompting a public debate about the ethics of harvesting people s cells.Now Oprah Winfrey has helped bring the story of Lacks and her immortal cell line to the small screen in a HBO film adaptation of the book that debuted on Saturday to mixed reviews.The narrative focuses on Skloot s interactions with Lacks s daughter Deborah, played by Winfrey. A toddler when her mother died, she alternates between enthusiasm and suspicion of the project, eager to learn about her mother but prone to wild conspiracy theories.The 63-year-old Winfrey, who once worked as a reporter in Washington, was determined to co-produce the film after reading the book. But the hugely successful talk show star who is one of the country s most influential public figures with her own cable channel, OWN said she long resisted the idea of acting in it. I was really afraid to do this role, she said this week during a promotional tour with the director George Wolfe, who had urged her to take it on. I said from day one, George, I don t want to make a fool of myself. Winfrey has won acclaim for a number of previous film roles, including in The Colour Purple (1985), The Butler (2013) and Selma (2014). Still, I don t put myself normally in situations where I am out of control and I don t know what I am doing, she said. Everybody on set is better than I am because they ve done it longer. That s the fear, that you re not going to measure up in the moment. One of the ways the billionaire Winfrey was able to connect with the role was as a longtime campaigner against sexual assault. I came from a life of abuse, she said.In parallel with Henrietta Lacks unfolding tale, her daughter gradually reveals her own untold story: the fact she her siblings faced mental, physical and sexual abuse at the hands of relatives after their mother s death.Still, Winfrey said she didn t feel the kind of rage and anger and fear many other victims do. I am pretty damn healed from all my past stuff. So when it came to a particularly emotional scene, she fell back on what she s most famous for. Remembering meeting a student from a school she founded in South Africa, whom she knew had been abused by an aunt, she said: I called her and said, Tell me about your aunt . . . AFP.