Jose MourinhoMANCHESTER. &#8211; Jose Mourinho is ready to wave the white flag in Manchester United s pursuit of a top-four place in the English Premier League and focus entirely on the Europa League. Saturday s latest setback, a 0-0 with West Brom that was their eighth English Premier League draw at home this season, further undermined hopes of a top-four finish and an immediate return to the Champions League soccer.United host Everton tonight and visit Sunderland next weekend, with Mourinho admitting he may be Europa League or bust that competition s winners also get a Champions League spot if they fail to take maximum points from those two matches. Against Everton, we re going to try to play with our best team and try to win. After that we go to Sunderland with the same perspective. Then the Europa League comes, and then I don t know . . . Then, it s possible that you will see me play in the Premier League with a team where I m going to protect the players I consider fundamental for the Europa League. But only, only &#8211; if the results in the next matches put us in a situation where, mathematically, it becomes almost impossible to make the top four. Until it s impossible mathematically, we ll keep trying, because this week is a week without the Europa League. This week is easy from the focus point of view. We have to play two matches, and we have to go for them thinking about the Premier League, nothing else. Then we have Anderlecht and the quarter-final, first leg of the Europa League, which is very important for us. With a run-in that includes trips to top-four rivals Manchester City, Arsenal and Tottenham and a home date with champions-elect Chelsea, it is easy to see why Mourinho is ready to pin all of his and United s hopes on the Europa League.Saturday was like Groundhog Day for United, who have dropped a staggering 19 points at home this season eight draws and one defeat leaving Mourinho s side with their noses pressed up against the window of the top-four battle.Although they were missing key men in the shape of top scorer Zlatan Ibrahimovic, world-record signing Paul Pogba and midfield dynamo Ander Herrera, United should nonetheless have had enough quality to break down an obdurate West Brom side.But the visitors showed impressive defensive resolve to hold out for a point in the face of relentless pressure from United, who will welcome back Ibrahimovic, Herrera and Pogba against Everton.The trio were part of a five-a-side post-match training session on the pitch at Old Trafford that also included skipper Wayne Rooney, who returned from injury with an ultimately ineffectual 14- minute cameo. &#8211; The Mirror.