Dlamini-ZumaDURBAN. Former African Union Commission chairperson Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma on Sunday warned of a massive revolt by young lions if the ANC-led government did not deliver on their demand for radical economic transformation. Dr Dlamini-Zuma, issued the warning during closing remarks at the ANC Women s League eThekwini regional conference in Durban.The young lions are the ANC Youth League members, who together with the ANCWL, have supported Dr Dlamini- Zuma to be the next party and national president with a hope that she would deliver the radical economic transformation.President Jacob Zuma, who has called for speedy economic transformation, is known to support his ex-wife to be next at the helm.Dr Dlamini-Zuma said it was wrong that a few white companies were monopolising the mining, retail, financial, construction and telecommunication sectors, and that the companies dominating there could be counted in your head . If we don t change that situation, the young lions will revolt. There will be a revolution. It is not the choice we have. It is an imperative if we want stability to remain in this country. She said the current economic system was dangerous and unsustainable . You cannot have a country where the majority are not part of the mainstream economy. She said the ANC should urgently look at how it can change the ownership to include everyone without excluding anyone . We are saying it must include more blacks, more young and more female ownership. We must systematically create more black industrialists, open the financial sector to include more and diverse banks, just as the Women s League conference resolved that a women s development bank should be created. She said the women s development bank would increase women s access to development financing.Dr Dlamini-Zuma lashed out at those who had spoken openly about problems facing the ANC.Although she did not mention names, former president Kgalema Motlanthe last week used the funeral of struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada to call for President Jacob Zuma to step down.Others, such as ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and Kathrada s widow, Barbara Hogan, criticised President Zuma for firing several ministers and deputies, including former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and his former deputy, Mcebisi Jonas.Dr Dlamini-Zuma said as a democratic movement, the ANC had internal platforms to raise challenges and disagreements. We debate and debate, but once we have come to a view, and all of us, irrespective of what your position was at the beginning of the debate, once the decision has been taken we must defend that decision. The ANCWL is continuing, and must continue, to show that discipline and make sure that we put the interests of the organisation first before our individual selves, she said.Meanwhile, South African Parliament Speaker Baleka Mbete on Sunday said she will ensure that requests for a no confidence motion against President Jacob Zuma be given appropriate consideration.Mbete arrived in South Africa on Sunday after cutting short her trip to Bangladesh, citing recent requests for a debate on a no-confidence motion against President Zuma as the reason.On March 30, Mbete s office received a letter from the opposition Democratic Alliance (DA) requesting for a motion of no confidence in Zuma. The letter indicated that the motion be scheduled when Parliament reconvenes.Later on the same day, a similar request was received from the leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) for the National Assembly to be convened for a special sitting to debate and vote on a similar motion.The opposition has approached the Western Cape High Court to compel parliament to urgently schedule a motion of no confidence in Zuma, who has been under fire for drastically reshuffling the cabinet in the early hours of Saturday.For a vote of no-confidence motion to be successful, it requires 201 of the 400 National Assembly MPs to vote in its favour. If the motion is successful, then the president, his deputy, cabinet ministers and all their deputies must resign as provided for in section 102 of the constitution.President Zuma has survived at least two no-confidence motions in Parliament, dominated by MPs of the ruling ANC. Daily News (SA)/Xinhua/HR.