Pamela Shumba Senior Reporter Zimbabwe has scored major achievements under the Zim-Asset programme, which have set a solid foundation for sustainable economic growth since 2013, the Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) said yesterday. Senior principal director in the OPC, Ambassador Mary Mubi said ZimAsset laid a concrete basis for accelerated economic development beyond 2018.The OPC is coordinating the implementation of the five-year blue-print, working closely with different stakeholders drawn from both public and private sectors.The ZimAsset strategy was crafted to achieve sustainable development and social equity anchored on indigenisation, empowerment and employment creation, which will be largely propelled through judicious exploitation of the country s abundant human and natural resources.This results-based agenda is built around four strategic clusters that are meant to enable Zimbabwe to achieve economic growth and reposition the country as one of the strongest economies in the region and Africa.The four strategic clusters are: food security and nutrition; social services and poverty eradication; infrastructure and utilities and value addition and beneficiation.Amb Mubi said through ZimAsset, Government made several achievements across the clusters.Among the key achievements was the ease of doing business reform process, which resulted in a review of a number of investment laws, the successful Command Agriculture programme, which is crucial in the food security cluster and the agro-processing value chain and improving public corporate governance standards.Other achievements include the fruitful re-engagement with the international community and the Diaspora, adoption of Special Economic Zones, signing of mega-investment deals in sectors such as energy and infrastructure projects, as well as the introduction of electronic governance systems across Government departments, which have enhanced provision of key services. ZimAsset has made commendable progress with most of the programmes expected to be long term. Command Agriculture has gone a long way in bringing together the Government and the private sector to make sure that the country doesn t import maize, said Amb Mubi. The completion of the Tokwe Mukosi Dam is a major achievement under ZimAsset, with more than 25 000 hectares of irrigable land expected to be utilised. Amb Mubi told our Bulawayo Bureau in an interview at the OPC stand at the ongoing Zimbabwe International Trade Fair that the manufacturing industry was poised for growth through adoption of the value addition model, which was set to reduce reliance on imports and increasing export earnings. We have also seen success in respect of value addition, while capacity utilisation has also improved, she said. There has been some level of re-tooling in the private sector. Amb Mubi said the introduction of e-government system saw a decline in corruption, particularly at the Registrar General s Office, which used to be overwhelmed with queues. Due to the e-governance system introduced through ZimAsset, we have seen smooth running at Government departments, she said. The RGs office is a good example. The upgrading of the system has minimised corruption and improved services to the public. We also recognise the parastatal sector, which is why we have identified 10 parastatals for urgent reform and structuring. These will be given priority attention. Amb Mubi said as a result of the ongoing reforms and engagement, more Diasporans were now willing to partner with the country in various business and development projects. Diasporans are key players in reviving the economy, she said. Besides their interest in investing back home, they have the money and their involvement is important for the country s economy. I m happy that we have a number of them approaching us for business ventures. All we need to do is to energise the Diasporans and the people back home to work collectively and know their roles in this economic drive. Amb Mubi said legislative reviews had started bearing fruit in attracting investors and making it easy for locals to establish and run their businesses. We have put a number of competitive measures to ensure the ease of doing business, she said. We have the Corporate Governance Bill under discussion to soon go through Parliament. We re also reviewing the Companies Act as we continue to look at other sectors to see how we can make it easy for people to apply for construction permits, collateral registries and loans from the bank. Legislation will definitely empower our people to smoothly revive our economy. Amb Mubi said forums like the ZITF were playing an important role in making people aware of where the country was going and how they could be part of the achievements.