Herald Reporter &#8212; Student unions have saluted President Mugabe for his sterling efforts in ensuring all Zimbabweans receive a sound education. The students, including those on Presidential Scholarship and studying in South African universities, said they were proud of the President who is also an accomplished teacher.They said this in congratulatory messages to mark the country s 37 years of independence yesterday.Zimbabwe Congress of Students Union (ZICOSU) national vice president Mr Samson Chuma commended President Mugabe for leading the nation to educational excellence since 1980. War veterans and the President fought for a noble cause so much that we can now access education easily at any school that we can afford, he said. We have the most educated President in the world whom we can look up to for inspiration and excellence in education and true to his cause, he has built many schools and tertiary institutions to ensure that Zimbabweans receive better education. Mr Chuma said the Government should ensure that young people in the rural areas were given preference in accessing scholarships. We appreciate our independence and what it stands for. However, we believe Government can do better in ensuring that education be made free and more accessible to the poor, especially those in rural areas. We are very worried about the plight of very intelligent students who are dropping out of schools in rural areas as a result of poverty, he said.University of Witwatersrand Zimbabwe students representative Mr Reason Huta congratulated the President and the nation at large on attaining 37 years of independence. Life is full of vibrations, not of bombs but of harmony and happiness that our own beloved father, His Excellency President Robert Gabriel Mugabe, and the other comrades brought to our hands. Thousands lost their lives so that our country breathes this day, we will never forget their sacrifice. Today we celebrate the land of freedom, the home of (the) brave and let the flag of Zimbabwe fly very high, said Mr Huta.Professor Abbyssinia Mushunje of Fort Hare congratulated the President and the nation on this historic occasion. With faith in our words, pride in our hearts, memories in our souls and freedom in our minds, we as the Zimbabwe Scholarship Fort Hare Alice Campus students would like to join hands with the rest of our nation in celebrating 37 years of independence. We wish the country great economic growth and prosperity for all Zimbabweans, he said. We also wish our President the best of health as we celebrate this day together as proud Zimbabweans. In a statement, University of Johannesburg Zimbabwe Presidential Scholarship Programme students said: As we celebrate, let us remember the brave who laid down their lives so that our country can celebrate this day. Never forget their sacrifices. We were the privileged lot to have been born in a free country. We could breathe the fresh free air since our birth. We remember all the courageous sons and daughters of the soil whose blood watered the freedom that we enjoy today. Together we have proved ourselves worthy of freedom! We belong to Zimbabwe, a nation of pride. Have a great Independence Day. 