Child president Tinaye Mbavari gives her speech yesterdayTinaye Mbavari Child President ON behalf of the children here, those at home and all of us, I am most delighted Your Excellency our President of the Republic of Zimbabwe for the opportunity you have given us to spend quality time with you. It has been a wonderful experience for the children to share the day with a leader and a father who has done so much for the advancement of the children of this country. At Independence in 1980 your resolution was no child must be left behind.And, indeed, you went further to open doors to all citizens who desire education. The unprecedented expansion of schools speaks volumes of your singleness of purpose as you led from the front to ensure that education was brought to the door- step of every child.Thank you very much Your Excellency. Your life and interaction with us has filled us with invaluable lessons which I urge all children to emulate. We learnt the virtues of commitment and sacrifice from your gallant role in the liberation of your people.We appreciate the merits of focusing on the issues that matter on the need for children to give priority and their time to preparing well for life, opportunities and challenges.Getting lost in drugs and other vices such as child marriages that do not prepare us for our future requires our sober reflection. There is so much ahead of us.My desire as the Child President is to see that our generation is defined by a demonstrable sense of responsibility, honesty, hard work, resilience and love for one another, to see a generation whereby the children of Zimbabwe are participating in the development of our country and that children of Zimbabwe are not forgetting the morals and culture of a proud Zimbabwean citizen.Your Excellency, as children born in a free Zimbabwe, we want to assure you that the children of Zimbabwe are fully aware that the independence of this country was attained through the supreme sacrifice of our fathers and our mothers both living and departed.We, therefore, understand our role in safeguarding that proud legacy and value as a nation and happily these are now included in our updated curriculum. Let me take this opportunity to thank all our entertainers today, all the organisers from various Government ministries and Cabinet for making this event a big success.All the cultures, the languages, the Tonga, Bemba, Shona, Zezuru, Kalanga, Ndau, Manyika, Korekore, Ndebele, all you who are here a big thank you from I the Child President and the Junior Parliament.I wish to thank all the parents and guardians for their support and all the children who made this day a resounding success. Once more, thank you Your Excellency for planning valuable time to spend with us.Amai and the First Family, you are true backers that inspire us. As delegates, we shall share the wisdom that His Excellency has imparted to us with our constituencies and colleagues back home. I wish you all safe journeys and success in your life.God Bless You.