MADRID. Cristiano Ronaldo praised Real Madrid s winning mentality after his hat-trick helped them through to the Champions League soccer semi-finals with a 4-2 second-leg win over Bayern Munich on Tuesday night. Ronaldo has also urged Real Madrid fans to stop whistling him after his hat-trick saw off Bayern Munich in the Champions League. The Portuguese superstar scored his 100th goal in the competition as Real reached the last four following a thrilling encounter at the Bernabeu.Ronaldo levelled the scores after Robert Lewandowksi s opener as he headed home Casemiro s cross. He turned towards the stands in celebration before putting his finger to his lips after being the subject of jeers during the first-half.And he has admitted his disappointment with the Bernabeu faithful over their treatment. I m not asking them to name streets after me, the only thing I ask is that they don t boo me here, Ronaldo told Spanish TV station Antena 3. I want them to stop booing me because I always give my best and even when I don t score I try to help Real Madrid. I just ask that they don t whistle me, he told Antena 3. I always give my best, I work and I help Real Madrid. I didn t tell them to be quiet never. But I take the positive things. The team was good, we played well and obviously I m happy with the goals. Real are now the favourites to win the competition, having claimed their 11th title last season. Madrid were the better side over the two legs without any doubt. Scoring six goals against Bayern isn t easy and we deserve to go through, he added. We are deserved winners. Number 12? No not yet but let s hope so. Manager Zinedine Zidane lavished praise on the team s all-time top scorer but reminded Ronaldo that Real players had to get used to the relentless pressure from supporters of the 11-time European champions. Perhaps the fans won t boo him any more, but this is the Bernabeu and it can happen from time to time and he knows that, said the former France captain. The only thing he did was to stay calm and he proved himself on the pitch. There are few players that are always there in the key moments, and the fans will be grateful for what Cristiano has done here. He always knows that when there s an important occasion, he s going to be there and he showed it again tonight. What he did is outside any sort of category. There are few players who can do what Ronaldo has done and we all know that. Lewandowski, who missed the first leg with a shoulder problem, had put the Germans ahead on the night from the penalty spot to level the tie on aggregate following Real s 2-1 win in Munich, where Ronaldo scored twice.A diving header from Ronaldo with 14 minutes left looked to have been enough to send the Spanish side through, only for bizarre own goal from Real captain Sergio Ramos to levelled things up at 3-3 overall.Bayern saw midfielder Arturo Vidal sent off for what looked a harsh second caution to go into extra time with just 10 men.Real made their numerical advantage count as Ronaldo grabbed his second of the match in the 105th minute &#8211; which saw the forward become the first player to score 100 Champions League goals &#8211; although he appeared to have been off-side.Ronaldo completed his hat-trick four minutes later as he rolled the ball in following a fine run from Marcelo, when he could well have been flagged offside again.A fourth on the break from substitute Marco Asensio in the 112th minute completed a 6-3 aggregate win for the Spanish league leaders as former Real boss Carlo Ancelotti endured a miserable return to the Bernabeu. We are just winners, Ronaldo told the Real Madrid website. Making six goals against a team like Bayern is not easy and we deserve to move through to the semi-finals. We played very well, obviously I am very happy to score all three goals, but the team has been great. The Portugal forward added: We knew we had to play very well because Bayern can score goals from anywhere on the pitch and proved to be an excellent team, but Real Madrid is Real Madrid. In the first half we had many opportunities and we could score a goal or two, also in the second half too. Yes, we conceded two goals, but Real Madrid is used to this setback, we won and we are all very happy. Ancelotti, who left Real after two seasons in 2015 having won the Champions League in the previous campaign, felt the Germans had done themselves proud despite the final result. Sky Sports.