Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis The way you see yourself affects everything about your life. It has a bearing on your financial status, your performance at work, grades in academics, relations with family, relatives, spouse, people in general and even with God. Read on and discover how you can tap into this revelation of God and change your life in this year of restoration! Exodus 14:11-16 is our text. The children of Israel have just left Egypt the land of oppression in great joy, but upon seeing Pharaoh following them, the joy dried and fear came in, and they said unto Moses, because there were no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? Whereof hast thou dealt thus with us, to carry us forth out of Egypt? Is not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt saying, Let us alone, that we may serve the Egyptians? For it had been better to serve the Egyptians than that we should die in the wilderness. What then would Moses have to do, facing such a challenge? Number one thing in winning in life is be careful of what you see.The Israelites once saw themselves as a people loved and remembered by their great God, but upon seeing the army of Pharaoh they began to see themselves as slaves again and as dead already! Before they were even head-on with Pharaoh they saw themselves as graves already and wished they had died in Egypt rather than in the wilderness.No matter what you are going through right now at your workplace or whether you are being pursued by creditors from everywhere, friend! You are not yet dead. It s not over until it s over. Shake yourself and say to yourself, I am still there! Don t talk death, don t talk failure, neither talk sickness! Talk faith, talk the Word of the most High God; I will not die, but live to declare the goodness of the Lord!I remember many years ago when we would sleep in our hut with cow dung as floor, but as I grew up I said no, I am going somewhere. I am not limited or defined with where I was born, the huts we slept in,No the Word of God defines me! O hallelujah! Never think or see yourself as hopeless and an impossible case, no. With men it is impossible, but not with God, for with God all things are possible, O hallelujah!Don t waste time thinking and wishing what you do not have, ignoring what you have or where you are! Can I tell you a secret?The door to what you want in life lies in what you have! One poor widow of Zerephath was saved from a huge debt by a little jar of oil that she had in her house?What do you have? What is in your hand? It is the key to what you want to have. Believe God! Believe in yourself! Surrounded by murmuring and angry people around him, what then could Moses have done? And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will shew to ye today: for the Egyptians that ye have seen today, ye shall see them again no more forever. The Lord shall fight for you and ye shall hold your peace. These are the powerful faith-filled words that Moses spoke to encourage the Israelites.When things get hot, speak words of faith. Don t talk fear or death or wallow in self-pity, no, you can still do something. Believe in God and believe in yourself! Believe in what you have. What did Moses have and what did God say to him? Listen; And the Lord said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me? Speak unto the children of Israel that they go forward. Lift up thou up thy rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, and divide it: and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea. All the while Moses and all Israel where wondering how God would intervene and help them.God himself was just looking at the rod! He challenged Moses, why are the people crying, what is the problem? You have the rod in your hand, use it! Stretch it over the sea and divide it! Reader the answer to your problem is already with you. It s in what you have.Here is the challenge of many, after discovering what they have; the problem comes in making sense of how it can be of use in changing their circumstance.Elisha told the widow what sounded to be very foolish guidance. She was suffering because of her husband s borrowing and here comes the man of God and tells her to go borrow again, vessels this time, 2 Kings 4:3. She obeyed and acted on God s guidance.It was foolish for a man to stretch just a log over the sea to divide it! But obedience is better than sacrifice. Interestingly another poor widow was left with food for a meal and her son before the call of death by hunger. Elijah comes with an instruction, asks the widow to feed him first then later herself and her son. It was hard, but she obeyed and the little flour and oil she had sustained her till the drought ended in Israel, 1 Kings 17:13-16. Friend, the point is this; you use what you have to have what you do not have.With the rod in his hand Moses, did wonders and powerfully delivered the Israelites from the oppressive Egyptians. How did he do it? It was accomplished with what he had, a rod. Moses despite the word God had given him; had to forget his past limitations and weaknesses and believe in himself as a deliverer.You can do the impossible! Believe in God s word and promise over your life and believe in yourself. You can do it, you can have it. For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27.