Wilfred MukondiwaEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Cricket general manager Wilfred Mukondiwa believes he has played his part in the 14 years he has worked for the organisation and does not have any regrets as he leaves office in June after reaching retirement age. Mukondiwa, who reaches the retirement age of 65 later this month, will step down from his role on June 14 with former International Cricket Council chief financial officer Faisal Hasnain having already been lined up as his successor. I have had an enriching experience at ZC and in the sporting industry in general and I am grateful for that. My tenure was punctuated with various challenges which I believe, if all stakeholders were united and shared a common sense of purpose, are not insurmountable but of a temporary nature. In that regard, it is gratifying to see the player base growing and young players coming into the limelight. This is a positive development for the future. As I leave the organisation, I am sure I will enjoy my retirement knowing full well we have laid out a solid vision and put in place systems to ensure ZC is operationally sound and well-positioned for success. I wish to thank the ZC board for the support they gave me during my tenure. I am also indebted to the executive, staff members and players for their hard work and dedication. Last but not least, I wish my successor well, said Mukondiwa.The former University of Zimbabwe registrar has been the ZC managing director since 2012, having joined the organisation in 2003 as general manager for human resources and domestic cricket.He has served ZC for a total of 14 years during which he also held the positions of general manager for human resources, board secretary and deputy managing director.His successor will be the Pakistan-born Hasnain, who left his job as the ICC s chief financial officer in December 2016.The 56-year-old finance and management expert was with the ICC for 12 years in two stints. Apart from the United Arab Emirates, he has also worked in England, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.ZC chairman Tavengwa Mukuhlani said Mukondiwa had been a great pillar in the last decade and was confident his successor will take the organisation to new heights. On behalf of the ZC board and the entire organisation, I would like to acknowledge Mr Mukondiwa s invaluable contributions to the game of cricket, in particular his leadership during a challenging period for both the organisation and the country. While we regret losing Mr Mukondiwa s active leadership and guidance, the board is pleased to appoint Mr Hasnain to the role of managing director.We believe his impressive r sum , experience and desire to succeed equip him well for the challenges ahead, and we are confident that he will build upon the strong foundation that Mr Mukondiwa is leaving, said Mukuhlani.