Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter THE last time they were in action, they hogged the limelight with that miracle goal and today ambitious and exciting newboys Yadah Stars take their crusade to Beitbridge confident they will keep alive their fairytale start to life in the Castle Lager Premiership. Four points from their first two games, which they have not only dominated but spiced up with impressive performances, have thrust Yadah Stars into the leading pack among the early pacesetters in this marathon.They were unlucky to drop two points, against Harare City, and then came good in a 1-0 win over ZPC Kariba courtesy of that Miracle Goal scored by big defender Jimmy Dzingai.And this week they left the capital early, to familiarise themselves with the conditions in Beitbridge, where they take on Tsholotsho this afternoon. We started without a goal, we then scored one and we hope to score more than one against Tsholotsho and then add one more against Ngezi Platinum because that is the only way we can gauge our progress, club owner Prophet Walter Magaya, who is also the technical adviser, told The Herald. It s about playing good football and, for this week, the idea is for the boys to pass it around the way Manchester City did against Hull and that is why they have been watching video replays of that match again and again. Yadah Stars are yet to concede a goal while their teenage forward Leeroy Mavhunga has been leaving a huge impression with vintage performances in each game.Midfielder Tatenda Dzumbunu has also joined from FC Platinum while another player has been recruited from Angola.Tsholotsho are expecting to benefit from the Easter Holidays and get a bumper crowd this afternoon.Their first home game managed to attract 450 fans.Club chairman Mlamuli Phiri said they can now even afford to pay policemen and referees on match day something which they struggled to do in Bulawayo. We have brought entertainment to the town and tomorrow is Good Friday so people will have something to entertain them. In Bulawayo we would only get some money in matches against Highlanders and Dynamos. But here our first game we managed to get 450 fans. If you look at our away weekend match against How Mine, 172 people watched that match but here we are now able to triple that figure. So it is very positive, said Mlamuli.Tsholotsho coach Farai Tavachera said they also want to repay the fans. We hope we will also get the results at home, which is what is left, for us to give them a win. We have been accepted here and we are feeling more than at home, said Tavachera. They (Yadah) are new in the league but they also don t know us either. We will stick to our game plan. We have a lot of youngsters from Division One and we are confident they can deliver. Castle Lager Premiership FixturesToday: Shabanie Mine v Bulawayo City (Maglas), Tsholotsho v Yadah (Dulivadzimu).Tomorrow: Ngezi Platinum Stars v How Mine (Baobab), Chapungu v Hwange (Ascot).Monday: Bantu Rovers v Triangle (Luveve).Postponed: Chicken Inn v FC Platinum, Dynamos v Black Rhinos, Harare City v Highlanders, ZPC Kariba v CAPS United.Independence Cup semi finalsSunday: Highlanders v FC Platinum (Barbourfields), CAPS United v Dynamos (NSS).