Rev ChivaviroTawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent Industry and Commerce Minister Mike Bimha said they were in negotiations with several stakeholders to come out with policies that benefit artists. Minister Bimha was speaking at the sidelines of Rev TT Chivaviro s album Maranatha launch at Cathedral Gardens in the capital on Tuesday.The event was graced by several ministers, musicians and arts personalities.Bimha said they were moving into trading services that benefit the local arts industry. As Government we support local production. I want to make reference to what we are doing at various levels. Most of the time we talk about trade we make reference to tangible goods but we are moving to what we term trading services, is a new area of focus that refers to intangible things that can be converted into value. Those include production of music, art and talent. We are negotiating to come up with rules that govern this particular area, he said.He said though there are negotiations at regional level, they were making efforts as a ministry to promote it at national level. At national level we are looking at how do we promote those who are involved and support can be inform of protecting the local production from imports like we did in SI64 but it can be inform of duty that we levy on goods that we import and duty that we remove on goods that provide the services to those who are service providers. We are looking into it and identifying those areas and then to say as far as musicians are concerned what duties can we remove, for example, equipment which they have to import, he said.He invited players in arts industry to come up with suggestions on the issue.Minister of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Dr Christopher Mushohwe was guest of honour at the launch.Speaking at the launch Dr Mushohwe said Chivaviro will be the ambassador for an upcoming gospel channel. We are in the process of finalising the digitisation process and as government we will be dedicating one of the channels to gospel music. We have chosen Rev Chivaviro and Baba Manyeruke among other gospel musicians to provide content for the channel that will be on soon, he said.Minister Mushohwe said they were giving Chivaviro the ambassador role because his music has inspired many music lovers. In fact we are giving Rev Chivaviro the ambassador role because he has been inspirational in the genre, vanoti vakaimba zvinhu zvinoreruka, zvavanoimba zvinotikomborera, he said.Several musicians that include Gift Mahlupheka Moyo, Trymore Bande and Mathias Mhere were present.Visiting South African musician Derrick Ndzimande heaped praises on Rev Chivaviro and other musicians for showing unity.Minister of State for Liaising on Psychomotor Activities in Education Josiah Hungwe bought the CD for $3 500.Rev Chivaviro said he was overwhelmed with the support he got from the government, fellow musicians and his fans. He said he has done his best to come up with the album that will take the industry by storm.