JOHANNESBURG. Zimbabwe international forward Tendai Ndoro returned on the score-sheet on a weekend in which a number of his countrymen, including Khama Billiat, were on target in the South African Premiership. Ndoro scored a penalty, in a 2-3 losing cause for Orlando Pirates, while Billiat also scored but saw his Mamelodi Sundowns team going down to Kaizer Chiefs 1-2. Kuda Machachi and Knox Mtizwa were also on target.Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane accepted his side s defeat to Kazier Chiefs but says the Absa Premiership title race is far from over. We lost to a very, very good Kaizer Chiefs team, we lost to a very good team, said Mosimane. It s not the end of the day, there s still time. These things do happen, unfortunately we scored an own-goal and maybe that s the only way they can beat us, hey? This was one of the (games we needed to win), but it s not the last, it s not the only one . . . I don t want to talk, I m upset because the securities were charging at us. The next thing, what s going to happen? Pitso doesn t accept the defeat. I accept the defeat, I went to shake Steve s (Komphela) hand and there s no problem. But when Kaizer Chiefs let their security charge at us? . . . It s okay. Moeketsi Sekola, Paulus Masehe and Mohamad Anas all scored for Free State Stars in their 3-2 win over Pirates who scored through a Thela Ngobeni own-goal and a Ndoro penalty.Golden Arrows coach Clinton Larsen says it ll take a huge collapse for his side not to finish in the top eight after beating Highlands Park yesterday at Princess Magogo stadium.Goals from Mtizwa and Mahachi got Arrows over the Lions of the North in their quest to finish in the top eight for the first time since the 2008/2009 season.It was also third win on the spin for Larsen s side in all competitions for the club which were on top of the log in September as they jumped one spot to sixth on the log standings, taking the place of Polokwane City and reaching the 30 points mark.The former Bloemfontein Celtic coach, who was also named Coach of the Month in August/September, reveals afterwards that dropping out of the top eight will take huge slide from his team but maintains that they still need to keep on fighting until their spot is assured. I think we ve been there in the top eight the entire season so it s going to be very hard on us to drop out of the top eight with eight games to go, Larsen told reporters after the game. Kick-Off