Canadian crooner Rev Kay Morris on stage at the AFM youth conference in Chatsworth, Masvingo, recentlyPauline Mhuka-Magavu CANADA S first lady of gospel reggae gospel Rev Kay Morris lifted souls at the just ended Apostolic Faith Mission in Zimbabwe international youth conference in Chatsworth. Whenever she would take the stage worshippers would shout and sing in appreciation to her praise and worship songs.She was staying at Great Zimbabwe, in Masvingo during the conference. Zimbabwe is a peaceful country and the people are naturally hospitable. I have never experienced such hospitality in any part of the world I have travelled to except in Zimbabwe, she said.The award-winning gospel diva said the AFM youth conference was inspiring and she was willing to come back to Zimbabwe. The AFM youth conference was inspiring; seeing thousands of young people on fire for God. I would love to come back next again for your national youth conference she said.People were impressed by her performance that left thousands inspired and affirm that she was indeed anointed by God.Her presence complimented this year s conference theme Keep the fire burning .The AFM national youth leader in Zimbabwe Dr Clever Gomba said the participation of the Rev Kay at the conference was a blessing and inspiration to the young people who attended the electrifying conference. It was indeed a blessing to have such a humble and God-fearing musician and pastor at the conference. I am happy that she has left souls freed as well as giving an inspiration to our local musicians, said Gomba.The rich biography of Rev Kay involves her selection as one of the global humanitarian Canada s 100 Black Women to Watch and she is also a Befeta UK Global Humanitarian Award winner.A native of Jamaica, Rev Kay was born in the Parish of Westmoreland and grew up in Montego Bay. Being raised by two Pentecostal minister parents, she was exposed to the most important influences that have guided her life and spiritual faith in the music world.She began her singing career at the tender age of four and worked hard to spread her spiritual roots in Canada, Africa and Jamaica.Rev Kay is a multi-faceted persona in many capacities. She is an ordained minister and an assistant pastor at Light Ministries. She is also the Benevolent Queen of the Royal House of Berekuso, in Ghana West Africa and an international evangelist.