Lloyd ChitembweEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter THE Independence Cup tournament has come and gone and it s back to reality for giants Dynamos and CAPS United who face intriguing assignments in their next Castle Lager Premiership matches tomorrow. Makepekepe, who are the defending champions, are looking to stamp their authority when they host Tsholotsho at the National Sports Stadium while DeMbare travel to the Colliery.Another interesting match is expected tomorrow when Highlanders travel to ZPC Kariba looking for their second win in three outings. CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe believes his team are in a good space. It s not really about complacency. I m sure these boys know what they have to achieve. At the end of the day they tested success and I am happy they want to continue. All the Premiership teams are not easy. Last year we won against them home and away, but it was never easy. There are no easy games in the Premiership. I am very happy we haven t been beaten yet, said Chitembwe.DeMbare skipper Ocean Mushure and midfielders Denver Mukamba and Gift Saunyama have been ruled out of the trip to Hwange through injury. There is no easy fixture for Dynamos and this one is no different, said coach Lloyd Mutasa.Meanwhile, Zimbabwean legend Stanford Stix Mutizwa wants his Black Rhinos players to keep their feet on the ground after a 3-0 win over Bantu Rovers at the National Sports Stadium yesterday.Chauya Chipembere dominated the youthful Bulawayo side with Milton Kureva scoring the opener after 32 minutes.Former Dynamos centre-back Sydney Linyama doubled the lead five minutes before Farai Banda completed the scoring. I am happy we got maximum points at home. We want to maintain the winning ways and carry the confidence into the next game. The team played very well in this game. Our strikers had lots of chances to score and we also have a defender on the score-sheet, said Mutizwa.Fixtures Today: Bulawayo City v FC Platinum (Barbourfields), How Mine v Chapungu (Luveve), Yadah v Ngezi Platinum (National Sports Stadium).Tomorrow: Triangle v Chicken Inn (Gibbo), Hwange v Dynamos (Colliery), CAPS United v Tsholotsho (National Sports Stadium), Highlanders v ZPC Kariba (Barbourfields), Shabanie Mine v Harare City (Maglas)