LONDON. – Harry Kane set a new record for the most Premier League goals in a year and will finish as Europe’s leading scorer for 2017 after the Tottenham Hotspur forward hit a hat-trick in his side’s 5-2 rout of Southampton yesterday. Kane’s 22nd-minute header at Wembley was his 37th goal of the year, moving him past Alan Shearer’s previous Premier League record, which was set when he played for Blackburn Rovers in 1995. But Kane wasn’t happy to settle for that milestone and he scored twice more to claim his eighth treble of the year. His second goal took him to 55 for club and country in 2017 – lifting him above Barcelona’s Lionel Messi to become Europe’s top-scorer over the last 12 months in the five major countries (England, Spain, Italy, Germany and France). Messi, who has 54 goals this year, can’t catch Kane as Barcelona don’t play again until 2018. Kane admitted he was keen to break Shearer’s record after he moved level with the former England star with a hat-trick in Tottenham’s win at Burnley on Saturday. The 24-year-old reached his landmark 37th goal in 36 league appearances, while Shearer played 42 times when he set the old record with 36 goals. Shearer was quick to congratulate Kane, tweeting: “You’ve had a magnificent 2017 @HKane. You deserve to hold the record of most @premierleague goals in a calendar year. Well done and keep up the good work.” Other high-scoring Premier League stars over a calendar year include Robin van Persie, who notched 35 for Arsenal in 2011, and Thierry Henry, who struck 34 times for Arsenal in 2004. Kane’s heroics were the highlight of a memorable Boxing Day for Tottenham as Dele Alli and Son Heung-Min also got on the scoresheet. Southampton, without want-away defender Virgil van Dijk, had escaped early on with Kane and Eric Dier coming close before the opening goal. Danny Rose was tripped on the edge of Southampton’s box and Christian Eriksen’s dangerous free-kick saw Kane head home from close-range for the historic moment. Those celebrations threatened to be cut short within 60 seconds. Sofiane Boufal’s shot was pushed away by Hugo Lloris but the Frenchman misjudged Rose’s cushioned header back. The Tottenham goalkeeper was saved by the post as the ball stayed out and a comical own goal was narrowly averted. Tottenham haven’t lost a league game in which they scored first since November 2016 and they doubled their lead in the 38th minute. In later matches substitute Jesse Lingard struck twice in the second half as Manchester United fought back from 2-0 down to earn a 2-2 Premier League draw with Burnley at Old Trafford. Burnley grabbed a surprise third-minute lead when, after a goalmouth scramble, Ashley Barnes fired home from close range and it could have been 2-0 when Scott Arfield’s volley clipped the top of the bar. United piled on plenty of pressure but Burnley doubled their lead in the 36th minute thanks to a superb curling free kick from 30 yards by Belgian midfielder Steven Defour which beat the diving David De Gea. United manager Jose Mourinho made a double substitution at the interval and Lingard got the home side back in the game with a clever back-heel flick in the 53rd minute. Mourinho’s side totally dominated the second half but were frustrated by a sturdy Burnley defence until Lingard drove home the equaliser in stoppage time. West Bromwich Albion failed to make the most of their opportunities in front of goal as they were held to a goalless draw by Everton Watford snapped their four-game losing streak and celebrated their first Premier League win in seven matches after an own goal by keeper Kasper Schmeichel gave them a 2-1 home win over Leicester City. Schmeichel made a simple mistake at the far post in the 65th minute as an Abdoulaye Doucoure cut-back from a tight angle came off his chest and trickled under him over the line, allowing the home side to complete their comeback after falling behind. Leicester dominated the opening half and looked set to extend their unbeaten away run to eight games when Riyad Mahrez gave them the lead with a firm header after Marc Albrighton’s cross from the left. But Watford equalised against the run of play on the stroke of halftime as Mali defender Molla Wague bundled in his first Premier League goal from close range before Tom Cleverley’s in-swinging free kick led to the home team’s winner. At Stamford Bridge Second-half goals from returning striker Alvaro Morata and Spanish compatriot Marcos Alonso earned Chelsea three points in the Premier League their headers breaching Brighton and Hove Albion’s disciplined defence after a fallow first half. Chelsea, spearheaded by the lively Eden Hazard, enjoyed the lion’s share of possession with nine first half shots, but Tiemoue Bakayoko, Victor Moses and Cesc Fabregas all wasted chances. Goalscorer Morata, back after suspension for Saturday’s 0-0 draw at Everton, sprang to meet Cesar Azpilicueta’s diagonal ball in the 46th minute and Alonso’s near-post glancing header from a corner by a fourth Spain international, Fabregas, made it two 11 minutes later. – AFP.  