Cde Madiro Nyore Madzianike Manicaland Bureau PEOPLE in Manicaland will continue to cherish the unity which was epitomised by the 1987 Unity Accord signed between zanu-pf and PF-ZAPU, and they will continue to consolidate the harmony that existed over the past years. Zanu-pf Manicaland provincial chairman Cde Mike Madiro said people from the province took the unity to a rejuvenated level and now recognised their political diversity. “The unity was manifested in the Unity Accord of 1987 which was signed by the major liberation parties, which is zanu-pf and PF-ZAPU, but that was actually the unity of the whole people of Zimbabwe,” he said. “You know that unity was deep rooted unity in people who were recognising their diversity in cultural, social, economic and political diversity with common vision and interest. That was a major move done by the two major liberation movements — zanu-pf and PF-ZAPU. The people of Manicaland joined the rest of the country in commemorating the day. The people of Manicaland will continue cherish that day.” Various events were held across Manicaland in commemorating the Unity Day, which fell on Friday and is celebrated on December 22 of each year. Cde Madiro said people of Manicaland were celebrating while looking at ways of consolidating economic gains. “People of Manicaland want to take this unity to another level. They want to take it to a higher level of unity in terms of quality, as they want to consolidate their economic gains. They would want to celebrate while having economic independence and power. We want to be a united people with economic independence,” he said. Cde Madiro urged people to continue having peace and harmony in the country, saying it was a good recipe for development. He said the prevailing tranquility in the country was a good sign of prosperity. “So, I would say to people of Manicaland and the whole country in particular, we urge the continued peace and harmony prevailing in the country to continue,” said Cde Madiro. “Together as the generality of people of Zimbabwe and the People’s Force, in defending that peace, that harmony and that unity, we gain development. “Development comes only when there is peace. As people of Manicaland, we cherish that unity for development.”