Acting President Muchinguri-Kashiri Zvamaida Murwira Senior Reporter Government yesterday launched Command Agriculture Livestock, which also covers fisheries and wildlife, to be funded to the tune of $432 million by both the State and the private sector, with major stakeholders pledging their contributions. The programme was launched by Acting President Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri, who is also Minister of Environment, Water and Climate. It was also attended by Minister of Lands, Agriculture and Resettlement Chief Air Marshal Perrance Shiri (Rtd) and Finance and Economic Planning Deputy Minister Terrence Mukupe, who stood in for Minister Patrick Chinamasa. In his keynote address, Minister Shiri said strategies for enhancing private sector service in the supply of inputs, public sector service covering provision of technical support, infrastructure, extension services support on good animal health and husbandry practices as well as animal diseases and pest control to meet market requirements were being formulated. “The broad aim of this programme is to improve the supply of animal-based products to meet our national food and nutritional needs and be competitive enough to meet export market requirements. “In the process, we hope to address our national nutritional food and non-food industries, thereby creating jobs, income streams and growing our agricultural economy. The programme will require an estimated budget of $432 million,” said Minister Shiri. “Farmers, as primary producers, will access loans with three to five years tenure at a modest all-inclusive interest rate of four percent.” Minister Shiri said the value chain that had been suggested included beef, dairy, goats, poultry and pigs, among others. “To qualify to participate in the scheme, applicants will be required to individually satisfy lending financial institutions requirements and guarantees,” he said. For her part, Acting President Muchinguri-Kashiri said Zimbabwe had 10 700 dams of various sizes, but was not producing enough fish to meet national demand. “We now have less dams because we lost some of them due to flooding and poor maintenance. I want to make sure that most of them are fully utilised because some of them had become white elephants. “In support of this Command Programme, through the Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority, my ministry’s primary focus shall be to ensure that all dams are fully stocked with fingerlings for the benefit of surrounding communities, thereby ensuring that their food and nutrition needs are met,” said Acting President Muchinguri-Kashiri. She said her ministry was finalising the crafting of a draft fisheries policy to regulate the fisheries industry. “To date, 350 requests have been received from individuals and entities desiring to participate in the Command Fisheries programme,” said Acting President Muchinguri-Kashiri. Speaking at the same occasion, Deputy Minister Mukupe said under the programme, Government would provide $80 million, mainly to erect fencing around major roads. He said Government would dispose of some of its equity in the Cold Storage Company to the National Social Security Authority. Sakunda Holdings chief executive officer Mr Kuda Tagwirei said his firm would invest $10 million towards the programme, saying his fuel supplying firm had previously worked well with the Government. Several stakeholders that included banks, millers, insurance industry among others pledged to support the programme. The programme is being introduced following the huge success of the Special Maize Programme for Import Substitution (Command Agriculture). It will focus on communal and A1 sectors as these contribute three quarters of the national herd. Command Agriculture is credited for being one of the initiatives by Government that led to a bumper maize harvest realised in the 2016/ 2017 farming season. President Mnangagwa is on record saying Command Agriculture was a sure way for the country to attain food self-sufficiency, with the country regaining its status on sustainable food production in Africa.