Charles Manyuchi Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S top boxer Charles Manyuchi has declared 2018 as the year for him to redeem himself after a disappointing 2017 in which he lost his World Boxing Council silver welterweight title. The 28-year-old is not taking a break for the festive season as he prepares for next year and is upbeat he will make a strong come back. “I have never enjoyed Christmas for the last five years because I am always in the gym training. And it was not different this year as I was busy with training because 2018 I feel it’s my year. I know there are some people out there who think I am done. “But I have been working hard and I believe I can come back. I am 28 now and I believe I still have a long way to go, people should believe in me. We have been working with Ali and Issa Phiri with the support of my sponsors Mr T35. I also have a new sponsor who came on board Phil-Jen Country Lodge,” said Manyuchi. Manyuchi’s camp revealed this month that he is set to challenge for the World Boxing Council silver welterweight title next year. The development came after WBC ordered former silver welterweight champion Qudratillo Abduqaxorov to fight the current welterweight champion Shawn Porter between January and February next year. Manyuchi lost the title to Abduqaxorov early this year before the latter lost it later on. The winner between Abduqaxorov and Porter will then face the Zimbabwean. Manyuchi, who recently launched a multi-sport academy based in Chivhu is expected to leave for Zambia tomorrow for an international boxing tournament being hosted by Oriental Quarries Boxing Promotions. He will take some of the amateur boxers — Future Maziya and Brendon Denes, who are part of the upcoming boxers roped into the academy as they begin their efforts to expose them to a more competitive environment. The academy is looking at helping the boxers turn professional. “Oriental Quarries are hosting an international tournament on the 30th and I am going with some of the young boxers we signed for them to see what we will be talking about when we talk about professional boxing. “I am going with Future Maziya and Brandon Denes as well as Freeman Mabvongwe, he is the only professional we have signed so far. I am leaving on Friday and we will come back together on the 2nd of January before I go back to intensify my preparations. I have a fight coming up, it should be between January and February,” said Manyuchi. His manager at Oriental Quarries Boxing Promotions Chris Malunga is expected in the country next week to shed more light on the expected fight, which will be part of Manyuchi’s preparatory events for his major bout when he challenges for the WBC silver welterweight title.