President Mnangagwa George Maponga Masvingo Bureau The Apostolic Christian Council of Zimbabwe has rallied its members to support the country’s new leadership led President Emmerson Mnangagwa, saying the country is poised for massive socio-economic transformation under his stewardship. ACCZ national co-ordinator Bishop Lyphet Matenda equated President Mnangagwa to the Biblical Joshua who led the children of Israel into Canaan. Speaking during a memorial service for the late Bishop Girison Matenda held at Mawarire Village in Mwenezi, Bishop Matenda exhorted all apostolic and other indigenous churches in Zimbabwe to back President Mnangagwa. The late Bishop Matenda founded the Zion Christian Church-Kumuka Kuvakafa (ZCC-K). Bishop Matenda, who is now the head of ZCC-K, said President Mnangagwa’s ascension to the presidency was foretold by prophets many years ago. “We need to rouse up all followers of indigenous churches to rally behind President Mnangagwa and Zanu-PF in next year’s elections because it is a tried and tested revolutionary party with a proven track-record of uplifting the lives of ordinary people,” he said. Bishop Matenda said while former President Robert Mugabe was the equivalent of the Biblical Moses who extricated the children of Israel from Egyptian bondage, President Mnangagwa was anointed to engender economic prosperity in Zimbabwe. “All indigenous churches are fully behind the new Government and we are very happy with the new President, particularly on his well-known stance as an anti-corruption proponent. We will support President Mnangagwa with all our means as we head towards next year’s elections,” he said. The ACCZ national co-ordinator also urged indigenous churches to pray for peaceful elections next year. He said Zimbabweans had traditionally proved to be very peaceful and co-existed harmoniously despite their political differences. Bishop Matenda challenged apostolic sect leaders and their members to go out in large numbers and vote to make sure they help President Mnangagwa and Zanu-PF retain power in the 2018 elections. Turning to Masvingo province, Bishop Matenda lauded President Mnangagwa’s appointment of Cde Josaya Hungwe as the new Minister for State for Provincial Affairs for Masvingo. “Our new minister of provincial affairs is a God-fearing man and we fully embrace his appointment and will work closely with him to ensure there is peace and socio-economic development in Masvingo province,” he said. Bishop Matenda said Minister Hungwe had very rich knowledge about the province having served as the province’s governor before. The memorial service for the late Bishop Matenda was attended by thousands of people drawn from various Zion and apostolic sects from different parts of the country.