Dr Mushohwe Cletus Mushanawani Mutare Bureau ZANU-PF national secretary for economic affairs Dr Chris Mushohwe has implored Zimbabweans to emulate President Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa’s work ethic to ensure quick economic transformation. Addressing Zanu-PF delegates from Manicaland recently, Dr Mushohwe said it was no longer business as usual in Government departments as President Mnangagwa always walks his talk and is always punctual on any programme. “As leaders, we should change our ways of doing business. We should emulate President Mnangagwa, who always reports for duty on time. We are blessed to have such a leader who wants to see the job done on time. The new Cabinet has already hit the ground running, with ministers being challenged by President Mnangagwa to think outside the box and pursue high speed programmes of action to improve livelihoods of Zimbabweans in the shortest period,” said Dr Mushohwe, who is also the Minister of State in the President’s Office Responsible for National Scholarships. He called for unity of purpose among all cadres in Manicaland. President Mnangagwa “We know that there are some G40s in our midst, but we should take a cue from our President, who has said no to retributions. Yes, people might be forgiven, but they should know that we have not completely forgotten about their past deeds. “Those who have been forgiven should completely reform and join the new political and economic dispensation. We all have roles to play in Zanu-PF and we should have mature leaders taking up leadership positions and not the child play that was characterising our meetings in Manicaland,” he said. Dr Mushohwe said he had no hard feelings against former Zanu-PF Manicaland provincial youth chairman, Mubuso Chinguno, who had developed a knack of insulting the party’s leadership during meetings. “Yes, we were subjects of ridicule by political greenhorns like Mubuso, but we have no hard feelings against him. I read in newspapers that he was asking for forgiveness from President Mnangagwa, Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri and myself, but we have no time to entertain political novices. If he is man enough like what he used to brag about, why skip the country? “We are here in Zimbabwe discharging our duties, yet he is in self-imposed exile. This should be a lesson to all youths that they should not allow themselves to be used by some individuals for selfish gains,” said Dr Mushohwe. Speaking at the same occasion, provincial chairman Cde Mike Madiro, reiterated his calls for unity in the province. “I want to thank you for showing confidence in me to be your chairman. I promise to work hard to ensure resounding victory for the party in the forthcoming harmonised elections. “We should bury the hatchet and work for the good of Zanu-PF. We should all learn from our past mistakes and work as a united Zanu-PF. All the mudslinging and uncalled for heckling of leaders should stop. At one time, after our provincial co-ordination meeting, where Mubuso was busy shouting at leaders, I met him at a fuel station. I was in the company of Cde Supa Mandiwanzira and we called him to explain the motive behind his unprovoked attacks on the leadership. He told us that his actions were monetarily motivated. He said after his verbal tirades, some leaders would phone and offer money to buy his silence. This is how rotten some of the leadership is, and we should not allow this to happen again,” said Cde Madiro.