Elita Chikwati Senior Agriculture Reporter Zimbabwe has registered tremendous gains in the control of tsetse fly, with the area under infestation declining from 80 000 square kilometres to 29 500 square kilometres, a Cabinet Minister said recently. Government, through the national budget has appropriated $1,6 million towards tsetse control in 2018. Tsetse flies affect food production, natural-resource utilisation and the pattern of human settlement throughout much of sub-Saharan Africa. The pest can cause sleeping sickness in human beings, and Nagana in cattle. According to the 2018 national budget statement by Minister of Finance and Economic Planning Patrick Chinamasa, the reduction of tsetse fly infestation has a potential of boosting tourism activities and improving the economy. “Over the years, the country has registered gains in eradicating tsetse flies with the resultant reduction in the area infested from 80 000 square kilometres to the current area of 29 500 square kilometres in districts such as Kariba, Hurungwe, Guruve, Mhangura and Mbire,” he said. “The eradication of the tsetse fly has the potential to enhance tourism activities as well as improve socio-economic developments within the corridor. This should also be complemented by fencing off of all National Parks to avoid the spread of disease from wild animals.” Zimbabwe used to control tsetse fly through anti-tsetse ground spraying operations based on the application of the pesticide pyrethroid, which is applied to tsetse resting and refuge sites such as trees and grass. The pesticide was effective in the dry season since tsetse flies drop larvae and not eggs that go into the soil and stay in pupa form before emerging as flies, a month or so later. The pesticide kills the emerging flies on contact. According to the Department of Veterinary Services, the country is now using insect odour baited targets, that are deployed at a density of four per square kilometre. This has provided a barrier by blocking insects from coming back.