Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter AS the athletics season gets underway, Mr Pace Athletics club have come on board to complement the national association’s efforts to create more competitions locally as they are set to host a cross-country meet on January 20. The competition will take place at Seke 6 High School, Chitungwiza with participants from clubs and schools expected to take part. The event is being organised by Mr Pace Athletics club owned by seasoned long-distance runner, Collen Makaza. The meet will see the seniors competing in the 10km race while juniors will take part in the 6km event. For participants from Primary Schools there is a 2km race on offer. Event director, Makaza said the meet is mainly part of their preparatory work since it’s the beginning of the season. “This is a cross-country event and all athletes can compete just to condition themselves, including track and field athletes. It will be a build-up to the upcoming events, it’s good for endurance and strength. “We are expecting Harare clubs to take part and we have already invited them. We are also looking at schools and colleges. It’s mainly targeting the Harare province because we are also preparing our team for the national cross-country competition in February. We want to keep our athletes busy and we should have these types of competitions in between the main events,” Makaza said. From the hosting club, athletes such as Canisious Nyamutsita and Bertha Chikanga are set to take part. The two won this year’s Old Mutual Westgate half marathon in the men and women’s section respectively, in September. It’s likely to be an exciting competition with most athletes hoping to utilise this opportunity and check their state of preparedness. “I think for the seniors we are looking at more than 100. But we are hoping for more numbers in the juniors and cadets, with the large numbers coming from schools. It’s a community based event so we are hoping for a good turnout,” said Makaza. This is the first time the club is hosting a cross-country event, having hosted the Mr Pace marathon from 2009 to 2012. The race attracted some of the country’s top athletes such as Gilbert Mutandiro and Sharon Tavengwa. “This is the first cross-country event that I have organised. But previously I have had the Mr Pace Marathon held between Chitungwiza and Harare from 2009 to 2012. I stopped the marathon because of lack of funds but I am happy I am back again with this cross-country competition,” said Makaza. Most the national events will take off in February.