The Miss Legacy pageant Queen Tapuwanashe Manyange (centre) poses for a picture while flanked by her first princess Anita Kubie (right) and second princess Eustas Gomba in Harare yesterday. — Picture by Tariro Kamangira Yeukai Karengezeka-Chisepo Arts Correspondent Twenty-year-old Tapuwanashe Manyange was on cloud nine after she was crowned Miss Legacy Zimbabwe 2017 on Saturday night at the 7Arts Theatre. The inaugural pageant ran under the theme “Embracing our culture”. It is now an annual tourism, charitable development beauty pageant that aims to promote culture, empowerment of the girl child and heritage of Zimbabwe. Manyange who is based in Hwange, shrugged off stiff competition from 15 other contestants who were vying for the crown and walked away with the grand prize of $1000. First princess Anita Kubie (30) pocketed $750 while the second princess Eustas Gomba (24) took $500 home. In an interview, Manyange who is signed under Size 4 modeling agency, said she is happy for the achievement. “I feel honoured to be the ultimate winner of this pageant. I have been in the modeling industry for the past four years but finally this has become my major breakthrough. “Now I feel more confident to contest in other international pageants and will do my best to represent our legacy well across the globe,” she said. Manyange who is also reigning Miss Summer Victoria Falls said part of her money will go towards charity. “I created a charity organisation called Save a Child in Hwange, so I will buy some groceries and clothes for these vulnerable children as a way of giving back to my community,” she said. Pageant founder Pauline Mapuvire said hosting the event was a learning experience. “This is my first time to run a pageant and I have learnt a lot of things that I will correct in the future. The turnout was low partly because it is holiday time we couldn’t hold it earlier but however, I am happy that at least people got to appreciate the importance of this event. If funds permit I would like to host Miss Legacy Africa,” Mapuvire said. Guests were entertainment by the energetic contemporary musician Ba Shupi who belted out his popular hits such as “Godo”, “Bhero”, “Mhururu” among others and also sampled his new single “Garwe”. He was supported by urban grooves artiste Mzimba, Terry Africa, Gwenyambira, Kelvin among others who did not disappoint on stage.