Munyaradzi Mlambo and  Denslow Kisi Correspondents Zimbabwe has already started taking baby steps towards socio-economic transformation, with President Emmerson Mnangagwa charming everyone with simple, but effective measures to change things in his first few days in office. However, the nation-building journey will definitely not be an easy one. While is it understandable that the majority of citizens entered the new political era with high expectations of a quick turn of fortunes, the truth is that it is going to take time for things to get better. Government will not deliver change on its own and the only miracle that will save this nation is hard work by the citizens. One key imperative for the new administration is to identify key demographic of the population – that is the youth – which will be critical to drive nation-building agenda. In Zimbabwe, the youths constitute the majority of the population. Although efforts have been directed towards empowering youths to take a more participatory role in governance issues of this country in the past, lately, youths have appeared be standing on the sidelines, with no power whatsoever to decide which direction the country must take. Policies and governance strategies regarding the youths are formulated by people foreign to their realistic needs. This is a problem that needs to be quickly addressed if any meaningful efforts to build a better country are to be put in place. In the previous era, alienating the youths was glorified and acceptable, but in this new era, this has to end. Young people need to rise and claim their rightful place in social, economic and political spaces of Zimbabwe. The overwhelming demand for youth participation in nation-building mainly lies in their ability and agility to execute top notch ideas. The world today is now a connected global village, bringing people closer together, thanks to young people like Facebook founder, Mark Zuckerberg. This was an unimaginable thing 20 years ago. With exposure to global trends and innovative skillsets being discovered on a day-to-day basis, it is clear that the future of any economy in this globalised world lies in their hands. Today, world wide, youths are at the core of making the global economy function through using the power they possess of dictating what happens next. For example in the United States, there is an increase in number of college degree holders below age of 35, who are moving into farming, according to US Department of Agriculture. This shows that young people in US are actively participating in making their country great by entering and excelling in spaces that used to be deemed a niche of the old. In Zimbabwe, renewed thinking must see youths forming consortiums to start businesses in areas of mining, manufacturing, agriculture and technology and in the process creating sustainable economic growth for the country. Already, Zimbabwe’s mobile phone and Internet penetration has sky rocketed because of the youths. This has created a rich platform for crowd sourcing ideas and reinventing them to suit the needs of Zimbabwe. Government must then play a supportive role and create an environment conducive for the empowerment and prosperity of the Zimbabwean youths Today, as Government starts making efforts to bring to life defunct industries, youths must take a leading role to guarantee a prosperous Zimbabwe in future. Recent events go on to prove the importance of youths in the national agenda as can be attested by the overwhelming attention and investment they have been receiving from political parties. For example, in the current ongoing Biometric Voter Registration exercise, they are playing crucial voter mobilisation roles and their vote is tipped to be the deciding one ahead of 2018 harmonised elections. It is therefore of supreme importance, that the youths be major stakeholders in policy formulation and governance issues of Zimbabwe. As constitutionally enshrined, the Government has responsibility to afford youth employment opportunities and other avenues to economic empowerment. The private sector too has a role to play in facilitating youth potential to succeed. For example, Global Accountancy firm Ernest and Young in 2015 scrapped degree or A-Level requirements when recruiting new employees. This, it did to “open up opportunities for talented individuals regardless of their background and provide greater access to the profession”. Local firms can also follow suit and adopt similar measures. On the other hand, as youths seek to empower themselves economically, they must avoid cutting corners, bearing in mind that quick riches do not last long. They must endeavour to do everything by the book, always staying within the ambit of the law in all their quest. On another note, the recently announced Budget has set in motion the economic recovery efforts. The raft of measures, which include doing away with the indigenisation law, a perennial impediment to investment inflows in Zimbabwe, reducing Government expenditure, fighting corruption, getting rid of continuously loss-making parastals and committing to payments of debts will give the economy the much needed jump start. And with President Mnangagwa having given his Cabinet team tight deadlines to deliver on projects they are to pursue, it is guaranteed that within the first 100 days, ED and his team will have put Zimbabwe somewhere better than it has ever been in the past 10 years Emphasis was given by the President on the restoration of Zimbabwe’s legacy not being a one-man job, nor a Government-only project, but rather, one which can only be achieved with all heads working together, each body part being fully functional. It is for this reason that the outcry over President’s Cabinet pick were unwarranted and retrogressive. Focus therefore should not be on who is in Cabinet, but a solid plan put to it to make it work. The Cabinet picks did not come out of the blue, but came after comprehensive analysis and careful consideration. President Mnangagwa is a practical-oriented man. To suit the needs of his action plan, there was need for experience in the in the core of the Cabinet, hence some familiar faces were recalled while new faces were also introduced. There is confidence everywhere, that the grandmaster of strategy and practical approach, President Mnangagwa, is not a blind piper leading blind mice into a gorge. This is not a speculative statement, but one backed by solid evidence. The grand plan has its foundation set, and in the first 10 days, its execution has brought about remarkable changes. For instance, there is a grand exodus of foreign investors jetting into Zimbabwe to inquire on available opportunities, a demonstration of confidence in the new administration by the international community. Prices are beginning to stabilise, banks are loosening up funds and ultimatums are being passed to find restitution from the externalised funds. The master strategist’s approach is quite unconventional, as he is not ruling with an iron fist. He is treating this country like the home that it is and treating others with dignity. It is quite rare to encounter such a gracious leader, who leniently gives 90 days to make things right and not go to prison to criminals. He is cutting expenses and promoting dialogue, and both these things are new to Zimbabwe. President Mnangagwa understands the responsibility he has to sail the ship to shore. The Cabinet ministers he appointed are part of the crew assigned task to accomplish this mission. The President can relieve of duty under-performers any day. The President has displayed propensity to listen to the people. The bigger picture is that in President Mnangagwa’s words, the voice of the people is the voice of God. Thus, it is never business as usual for the new ministers. They must, with immediate effect start taking necessary steps towards the Zimbabwe we all want to see. Munyaradzi Mlambo is a journalist and Denslow Christian Kisi is an award-winning advertising and marketing expert. Feedback munyamlambo13@gmail.com