Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter THE Sport and Recreation Commission will today host the second Sports and Recreation Governance conference at the Rainbow Towers as they go a gear up on emphasising the importance of implementing the best international practices in corporate governance.  The conference is a follow-up to the first one held at the beginning of the year and is aimed at taking stock of the compliance levels by the national sport associations and any other sport bodies undertaking sport and recreation activities in line with the Sports and Recreation Commission Act and the Regulations. Sports Commission corporate communications officer, Tirivashe Nheweyembwa said all is in place for the conference to be officially opened by Minister of Sport, Arts and Recreation Raymond Kazembe. “I think we are there in terms of making sure preparations are up to scratch. We have lots of participants who are still confirming and still coming through, they are quite excited. In respect of the presenters, they have confirmed their availability. We are saying to all national sport associations let’s make an effort to attend this because we are saying the minister is also going to share his vision with stakeholders,” said Nheweyembwa. The conference will cover several topics with SRC board chairman Edward Siwela presenting on the role of the executive members or board executive members in turning around the sport sector in Zimbabwe. Acting director-general Joseph Muchechetere will give an overview of the current compliance status in Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe Olympic Committee chief executive Anna Mguni is going to look at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics roadmap. “Acting director-general Joseph Muchechetere will look at state of compliance in Zimbabwe, looking at who has complied, who has not and who has partially complied and probably chat the way forward with the delegates. “Then we look at 2020 Tokyo roadmap by ZOC chief executive Anna Mguni. What is it Zimbabwe is doing, what is it that has been put in place. It is an opportunity for ZOC to share the plans they have,” said Nheweyembwa.  The conference will also cover the issue of podium performance and it will be presented by SRC high performance manager Martin Dururu. The supreme sports body has had some challenges with most associations failing to comply with their statutes while some are partially compliant.