Vice Presidents General Constantino Chiwenga (Rtd) (L) and Cde Kembo Mohadi Sports Reporter ZIFA president Philip Chiyangwa yesterday joined the nation in congratulating newly-appointed State Vice Presidents – Retired General Costantino Chiwenga and Kembo Mohadi – with the association welcoming the appointments, which they believe will enhance the development of sport in the country. President Emmerson Mnangagwa announced the appointments of his two deputies this week and ZIFA, just like many institutions across the country took time to congratulate Vice Presidents Chiwenga and Mohadi in a statement issued yesterday. “ZIFA acknowledge and appreciate the role of Government officials in the development of sport, hence the ushering in of new blood in the top echelons of power has potential for further development of sport. “We have confidence in the ability of the newly appointed Vice Presidents to oversee progress in their areas of jurisdiction. We wish General Chiwenga (Rtd) and Cde Mohadi all the best as they undertake new responsibilities as lieutenants to the President of the nation, His Excellency Cde Emmerson Mnangagwa. Congratulations Makorokoto Amhlophe!!!” read the statement. Chiyangwa also congratulated Liberian football legend George Weah on his election as president of the country. “We are elated by this incredible achievement by an icon in the football fraternity and we do believe that as the football family, we have a responsibility to unite the world through sport in general and football in particular. “We want to walk with you in this career and journey you have chosen and we wish you all the best as you take on new challenges ahead. We are positive that the same determination and motivation which saw you succeed as a football player will lead you to great success as a leader of the people of Liberia,” said Chiyangwa. Meanwhile, Chiyangwa’s deputy Omega Sibanda has been appointed as a match commissioner for a Youth Futsal match between Angola and Zambia on the weekend of January 12-14. Sibanda is excited by the responsibility bestowed on him and the trust that CAF continues to show in him and the Zimbabwean football leadership. “I am honoured to be selected to officiate at such a high-profile stage. Apart from the obvious recognition that CAF continues to accord our football leadership, the experience is critical for me and the association as we seek to establish our own Futsal and Beach Soccer teams in the near future,” Sibanda told the association’s website www.zifa.org.zw Sibanda was recently appointed to the CAF Futsal and Beach Soccer Committee, which has the mandate of spearheading the development of futsal and beach soccer on the continent. ZIFA said yesterday that they were making strides towards creating infrastructure to enable the practise of beach soccer. “A beach soccer pitch under construction at the ZIFA Village in Mt Hampden is 90 percent complete’’. The association also sent their condolences to the family of the late Chapungu player Beavan Gwamure. Gwamure, who turned to coaching after his retirement, died in Johannesburg, South Africa, on Sunday after a short illness. He was 55. “ZIFA president Philip Chiyangwa, the Executive Committee, Secretariat and the General Assembly would like to extend its deepest sympathies to the Gwamure family following the death of former Chapungu player and coach Beaven Gwamure. “We are with you during these sad times and we pray and hope you find comfort in the arms of Lord. This is a loss not only to the Gwamure family, but to the entire football family, both in Zimbabwe and South Africa where he was now pursuing coaching,” ZIFA said.