NUMERO UNO . . . Former Black Rhinos chairman and guest of honour Justin Mujaji (left) congratulates Bruce Homora after the defender was named the best player at the army side in Harare last night. — (Picture by Munyaradzi Chamalimba) Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter Skipper and defender Bruce Homora was named the Black Rhinos Player of the Year last night when the army side celebrated a year of mixed fortunes with an awards ceremony at a Harare Hotel. Homora, one of the pillars in the Rhinos line-up this season, walked away with the highest honour as recognition for his consistent performances in the heart of the defence. Chauya Chipembere’s 21-year old defensive midfielder Donald Mudadi, who was ruled out of the Soccer Star of the Year awards because of excessive bookings, was the biggest winner on the night after he was crowned the Players’ Player of the Year and Rookie of the Year. Mudadi could have been the dirtiest player in the league yet his club still found real value in his debut Premiership season. Striker Lot Chiwunga scooped the Golden Boot award for his 12 goals this season. Chiwunga was a contender for the Premiership Golden Boot award this year but he was relegated into second place together with Dynamos’ Cameroonian import Christian Epoupa by CAPS United’s Dominic Chungwa who scored 17 goals. Upcoming midfielder Taurai Chigudu was voted the Most Improved Player with veteran Shadreck Jimu getting acknowledgment as the Most Disciplined Player. The club’s oldest man on the pitch Brighton Chandisaita, who turns 40 next year, received the Chairman’s Special Award which also carried monetary incentive. But Homora could have left the night satisfied more than anyone else. His solid performances even caught the eye of national team coach Sunday Chidzambwa who roped him in for the COSAFA Castle Cup tournament which Zimbabwe won a record fifth title in South Africa in July. The 30-year old capped a fine season last night when he was crowned Rhinos Player of the Year ahead of the likes of Chiwunga, Jameson Mukombwe, Sydney Linyama and goalkeeper Herbert Rusawo who also had decent performances this year. Homora was given the skipper’s armband at the beginning of the season and he marshalled his troops well especially in the first half of the campaign when Black Rhinos were in sparkling form and promising to turn back the hands of time to 1984 when they won their maiden Premiership title. Such was the grit that Chauya Chipembere went to the mid-season break on top of the table with 31 points with a game in hand. Their defence which had conceded only seven goals was their fortress upon which their successful start to the top-flight season was built. But Stanford “Stix” Mtizwa’s men suffered a paralysis in the second half of the season and ended up fighting for their lives. Rhinos secretary-general Camble Sithole said the awards should help boost the players ahead of next season. “I am sure this is our humble way of appreciating the players that stood out. To those that have won the awards, this should work as motivation to spur them on to do even better next season and to the others it should act as an inspiration. Congratulations to the winners,” said Sithole. Rhinos returned to the Premiership this season after they were relegated in 2013. They finished seventh in the race with 46 points. Mtizwa and his charges were eight points clear of the relegation zone and a massive 26 behind the champions FC Platinum after they gave up the fight early. “It was a year of two halves but basically I can say we survived relegation in the first half. That was the immediate goal although we feel we still could have pushed for a better position at the end of the season. “Remember we were on top of the table exactly mid-season and judging by that performance we were confident we could get a top four finish. However, with football you actually never know what will happen with the next game. Form deserted us and from being potential title contenders we ended up fighting relegation. “But we still find solace in that we managed to finish among the top eight. It feels good nonetheless to be up there and we now have to build on that going into the 2018 season. Obviously we need to beef up our team and to capacitate our coaching staff. We need more qualified personnel to assist our coach on the technical bench,” said Sithole.  Black Rhinos award winners Player of the year: Bruce Homora Players’ player of the year: Donald Mudadi Top Goal scorer: Lot Chiwunga Most Improved player: Taurai Chigudu Most disciplined player: Shadreck Jimu Rookie of the year: Donald Mudadi Chairman’s special award: Brighton Chandisaita