YOU MAY KISS THE BRIDE . . . . Close friends and the bridal team watch as Warriors forward Tendai Ndoro and bride Thandekile Grace Maseko (centre and inset) kiss during their colourful traditional wedding in KwaZulu Natal last week Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter WARRIORS forward Tendai Ndoro gave himself a special Christmas present when he tied the knot with his South African fiancée Thandekile Grace Maseko at a colourful traditional wedding in KwaZulu Natal last week. Ndoro believes he scored a perfect goal with his marriage to Maseko and is hoping the holy union will bring an avalanche of blessings in his career after moving from South Africa’s Orlando Pirates to Saudi Arabian outfit Al Faisaly last August. The latest episode in the 30-year-old striker’s life could be a clear demonstration he is now committed to settling down after putting behind him a dirty past that always came to haunt his otherwise impressive career. Ndoro told The Herald that he was now looking to invest all his focus on his football career and his young family. “Am very happy and looking forward to my marriage. It will make me more focused than before because now know I have my own family,” he said. Ndoro could not contain his joy and he followed up by displaying his affection for his newly wedded wife with a series of Facebook posts yesterday. “We give all the Glory to God . . . Ladies and Gentlemen let me introduce to (you) the Minister of Everything in Fire7s Cabinet, Her Excellency Mrs T.G Ndoro. “I don’t want to win the race of life by being the fastest runner, I want to win it by walking slowly hand to hand with you my wife. As we grow older together, as we continue to change with age, there’s one thing that will never change . . . I will always keep falling in love with you . . . May ALMIGHTY GOD BLESS US #justwedded.” And on that bright and cloudless day in KwaZulu Natal last week, Ndoro, who was flanked by a bridal team that included his identical twin brother Takudzwa as the best man, ex-Chicken Inn teammates Walter Mukanga, Moses Jackson and Elvis Chipezeze, the striker looked happy to exchange the football jersey for a variety of traditional wedding outfits that added the colour to his day special. The ceremony was a typical Zulu traditional wedding punctuated by music and dance. The former Chicken Inn and Orlando Pirates man said he was happy to have his close friends by his side. “We are more than friends. I can say we are brothers now. We talk every day, even when we are very far from each other. We keep our friendship very close and we support each other in everything we do. Having them on my wedding was great because they played a big role in my life,” said Ndoro. The forward, who was handed the national team armband for the Warriors’ two international friendly matches against Lesotho and Namibia last month, believes the wedding was the best way to end the year. With the Saudi league now at its peak, Ndoro wasted no time as he flew back to the Middle East nation, where his team is expected back on the pitch as early as next Thursday, when they face Al Ittihad. Ndoro has made six appearance and scored once since he made the move to the lucrative league four months ago. Al Faisaly are currently sitting on fourth place with 24 points after 14 games and they are only four points shy of the leaders, Al Ahli, in the 14-team league. Still, Ndoro said he is expecting a Christmas with a difference this year. “I am travelling and going for vacation with my family,” Ndoro said.