Bishop Mutendi Sydney Mubaiwa in Bikita Bishop Nehemia Mutendi of Zion Christian Church (ZCC) has castigated opposition MDC Alliance for lobbying for the maintenance of illegal sanctions against Zimbabwe, which continue to cause unnecessary suffering to the ordinary people. Addressing a youth meeting at Mutendi High School recently, Bishop Mutendi said the opposition members had once again been exposed as puppets lacking direction and ideology. He expressed dismay at moves to lobby the West while other parties such as Zanu-PF were seeking support from the people ahead of next year’s harmonised elections. “There are some fools who do not want to do well for the country, but are inspired by their own selfish agendas. We have been under sanctions for 17 years and they do not put that in mind. We have been living in abject poverty for many years like what the Israelites experienced in Egypt,” said Bishop Mutendi. Bishop Mutendi said engaging the West at a time hope had been restored under a new political dispensation led by President Emmerson Mnangagwa was sad. “When this new dawn was about to come, God used not people from outside, but he used us, Zimbabweans. We have been waiting for a message from the Heavens as bishops to solve the social, political and economic challenges in Zimbabwe, but God send his angels, not from other countries,” he said. Mr Chamisa Bishop Mutendi had no kind words for People’s Democratic Party leader Mr Tendai Biti, MDC-T vice-president Mr Nelson Chamisa and others who recently took their “shameful” sojourn to lobby for the sanctions in the United States. He urged Zimbabweans to remain united and be vigilant to repel the sanction-mongering opposition parties. “Those people who call for other countries to intervene in our domestic politics should be answerable to the suffering people of Zimbabwe. It is also shocking that instead of contributing to the success of our new dispensation, they are busy trying to scuttle our economic turnaround strategies,” said Bishop Mutendi. Messrs Biti and Chamisa were in the United States together with Human Rights Watch of Southern Africa director Mr Dewa Mavhinga where they called for the maintenance of illegal sanctions against Zimbabwe.