Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter BLACK Rhinos Queens yesterday celebrated another decent season when they honoured their players at an end of year party and awards ceremony at Headquarters Two Infantry Brigade. Lynett Mutokuto was named the Player of the Year while Sibusisiwe Chipindura got the best goalkeeper. Christabel Katona was the top goal scorer and Talent Mandaza was voted the most disciplined player. However, she passed the award, a pair of boots to Olivia Nezomba, whom she nominated as the most improved young player from the club. After being voted the player of the year by both players and the technical team Mutokuto said she feels encouraged with the recognition. “It’s exciting. I am so happy with the award because I put extra effort when I work that’s why I was nominated the player of the year. So I am so happy and I want to thank my teammates and the technical team for nominating and voting for me to be player of the year. And next year I will work even harder. “We started the season well and finished well. I hope if we keep working hard, 2018 we will remain on top of our game,” said Mutokuto. For Nezomba the award is a sign of a promising future in football and said she was aiming for a place in the Mighty Warriors. “It shows I have a good future in football. I am looking forward to keep on improving and play for the Mighty Warriors someday. I think the 2017 season was okay, one just needs to have the zeal to play and be somebody in life,” said Nezomba. The Black Rhinos Queens were the runners-up in a league that had to be determined by a four-team tournament on Saturday. With problems continuing to haunt Women’s football there was once again no logical conclusion to the fixture programme, a worrying scenario which the ZIFA board would urgently need to address. However, Rhinos coach, Thomas Chinyan’anya applauded his side for a good show during the season but challenged his players to follow in the footsteps of Mighty Warriors international Rutendo Makore who moved to Spain recently. “I am happy for some of these players they were given some presents. They deserve to be given those presents because they have worked hard for it. I have encouraged them to put more effort next year. “Those who got awards, it’s not by mistake. An example is Rutendo Makore, she put maximum effort during training, and it’s not a mistake (she moved to Europe). If all the players could do that we would have five players outside the country,” said Chinyan’anya. Guest speaker — Colonel Training Tapiwa Chikohora — praised the club for its continued success in the league and being one of the top clubs that provides most of the players to the national team. “At the risk of sounding like a broken record, Black Rhinos Queens Football Club has become a dominant force in women football since its formation in 2004 . . . I want to recognise the undisputable fact that the club is the cornerstone of the Zimbabwe Mighty Warriors,” said Chikohora.