TREND SETTING . . . Ngezi Platinum players (from left) Kelvin Bulaji, McClive Phiri, Mcdonald Teguru, Terrence Dzvukamanja and Michael Charamba display different kits which the club unveiled during their end of year awards reception in Mhondoro Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter IN their bid to become a fully-fledged professional club, which follows modern trends, ambitious Premiership side Ngezi Platinum will embark on further refurbishment of their home ground Baobab next year. The stadium is only two-years old and one of the best facilities in the top-flight football. But the club chiefs are not yet satisfied with the facility and this week they revealed that they are to construct a state of the art gym at the arena. Speaking during the club’s awards dinner in Mhondoro, Ngezi president Stanley Segula said they want their brand to become the team of choice for every good player in the Premiership. “More investment will be made to modernise our training facilities with construction of a gym planned for 2018 over and above the training aids that have been acquired. Funds permitting, further grandstanding at the stadium will commence in 2018,” said Segula. Ngezi built Baobab in record time following their promotion from Division One and they believe they have the capacity to carry out the latest renovations. The club also want to bolster their junior project. “The Junior soccer development programme initiated this year will be intensified in 2018. The Ngezi Platinum Stars Under-19 finished 11th in the Division One League. “A talent scouting tournament was undertaken with 11 players identified for inclusion in the 2018 NPS junior squad. This primarily targeted talent from within the region. We have got no doubt the club will in the near future benefit immensely from this investment,” said Segula. Segula, who is also the Zimplats Managing Director outlined the vision for the Ngezi Platinum, which involves the club becoming self-sustaining. The model is similar to what has been assumed by newly crowned champions FC Platinum who have FC Platinum Holdings, sponsoring the football team and no longer relying heavily on Mimosa mining company. “May I also take this opportunity to thank our committed sponsors that include among others Zimplats, JR Goddard Constructing Company, DairyHill Investment, Original Technology, First Mutual & Old Mutual who have been instrumental in supporting and growing the NPS brand. Mhondoro Ngezi community wishes these outfits prosperity. The club has made significant strides on the commercial front with its company already assuming some portion of its running budget. The vision is 100% within the next two years,” said Segula. Segula said Ngezi are eager to become one of the best clubs on the domestic front and to be regarded a giant among such teams like Dynamos, Highlanders, CAPS United, and FC Platinum. The Ngezi president said the exposure they got from the CAF Confederation Cup also helped them to have a great season. “Gone are the days when it was all about the household football names — the tradition by four. We are one of the big four of season 2017. A position we want to maintain into the foreseeable future. “That exposure to continental soccer provided the foundation for a strong run in the domestic league where we finished beyond the target of fourth. Indeed the story can never be complete without the NPS brand that with distinction made the season one of the most tightly contested — right to the wire. “Losing two critical players through injury and family bereavement in the last three critical matches cost us dearly. When all is said and done winning 19 and drawing eight of the 34 games and scoring 54 goals against 34 was just fantastic. At 65 points we were seven points short of the eventual winners! “On the positive side such a mazy run gives us hope that a blue sky could be round the corner for this club. That’s what the people of Mhondoro want and we are not going backwards. But forward ever. We want to make Ngezi the team of choice for every good player in the league. The club will undergo significant renewal as we embark on an ambitious squad strengthening exercise,” said Segula. Ngezi also unveiled their new kits for 2018 in which they will be having two different home strips and as many for the away assignments.