Dr Mpofu Herald Reporter Home Affairs and Culture Minister Dr Obert Mpofu has challenged the Department of Immigration to keep abreast with developments within and outside the country to enhance attraction of potential foreign visitors and investors. He said the department’s Policy and Research Unit, and Legal Services should assist in the identification of new local, regional and global trends to proffer the best possible responses to global clients. Dr Mpofu was speaking while addressing heads of departments and parastatals within his ministry last week. He said the Registrar General’s Department should also be responsive to matters pertaining to the granting of citizenship and subsequent issuance of identification particulars. Dr Mpofu said the creation of stable employment opportunities required the involvement of all citizens and Government ministries. “Let me illustrate this by way of an example of what is taking place at our exit and entry points,” he said. “The norm is that various employees of Government are deployed at the border posts. These include the police, immigration, zimra officials, among many. “How then do cases of smuggling that rob the fiscus of the much-needed revenue become common place at such places? Is there anything wrong with our policies? How best can we plug off revenue leakages in order to grow our economy?” Dr Mpofu challenged all the departments to meaningfully and collectively contribute to the realisation of a professionally, properly and profitably run economy. He said elections would be held next year and Government could not afford to reach the period without a clear direction on service delivery. Dr Mpofu said their work ethic should set a positive campaign trail for the ruling party. “We need results and not empty promises,” he said. “You are the people who can make Government succeed or fail. We cannot afford the latter. We all have to play ball. Those who choose to be spectators or remain entrenched in the past way of doing things should not be surprised to find themselves replaced. “Each year, we have additional numbers of voters from teenagers who would have turned 18 years. We expect the Registrar General’s Office to be abreast with issuance of identification cards to all our citizens so that they are able to exercise their constitutional right to vote and elect leaders of their choice.”