Cde Shamu Political Writer Cde Webster Shamu, whose nom de guerre during the liberation war was Charles Ndlovu, was born on June 6, 1945. His father died in 1963 leaving his mother Mary to take care of the family. Shamu has seven siblings and is married to Constance Tsomondo. His mother died in February 2013 at the age of 90. He started politics in the 1960s when Rhodesia was still a British colony. He left his job as disc jockey (Dj Master Blaster) to join the liberation struggle. Before he left the country, whilst a disc jockey, Cde Shamu propagated the importance of joining the liberation struggle. After independence he was elected Chegutu East Member of Parliament in the 2000 parliamentary elections. He was re-elected in 2008 and 2013. Cde Shamu’s first ministerial post came in 2004 when he was appointed Minister of State for Policy Implementation on February 9 of the same year. He served in the same ministry for one year and was appointed Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Youth, Sport and Culture in 2005. During the Government of National Unity (GNU) he was appointed Minister of Information and Publicity from 2009 to 2013. In 2013 he was appointed Minister of Information and Communication Technology and Postal and Courier Services and was Zanu-PF national Political Commissar until December 2014 when he had a stint in the political wilderness before coming back on his current appointment in October 2017. During his time of banishment, Cde Shamu showed humility and dedication to the revolutionary party notwithstanding trials and tribulations Upon his return, Cde Webster Shamu, had a handy advice for Zanu-PF cadres. He said suspended or expelled party members should always abide by the party’s rulings, humble themselves and ask for forgiveness, instead of trying to fight back. Addressing a Provincial Coordinating Committee, Cde Shamu said party members should stand guided by the party’s decision. “I accepted the ruling made by the Congress, Central Committee, Politburo and (former) President Mugabe and l still stand guided by that.” He committed to working with the party and Government. “The party and the Government must work together and complement each other. As resident minister I make it a point that every day at about 6:15am to 6:30am l have a chat with Provincial Chairperson Cde Ephraim Chengeta. We update each other on the state of the province,” he said. When President Emmerson Mnangagwa came in following his inauguration on November 24, Cde Shamu was retained in his Government role.