Mr Kadaira Blessings Chidakwa Herald Correspondent Mashonaland Central provincial administrator Mr Cosmos Chiringa has urged council debtors to clear their arrears, as Government will not slash rates come election time next year. Prior to the 2013 harmonised election, former President Robert Mugabe’s administration slashed bills for residents countrywide, leaving most councils struggling to offer basic services. Addressing a stakeholder luncheon organised by Mazowe Rural District Council (RDC) on Friday at Mazowe Hotel in the province, in a speech read on his behalf by district administrator Mr Mark Kadaira, Mr Chiringa urged council debtors to clear their arrears. “Let’s not forget the council motto, ‘Mutero kukanzuru, Service kuvanhu’. No more is the era of slashing off rates, but that of responsible citizens who live up to their obligations. John F. Kennedy once said, ‘ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country,’ of which I say today be responsible and pay up council dues,” he said. Mr Chiringa said the luncheon sought to give an opportunity to Mazowe RDC stakeholders to explore the vast opportunities offered by the council. “The event will foster a culture of commonality in the context of our district philosophy. Our work ethic has to promote investment at all echelons of administration, realise our potential as Mazowe in terms of the agricultural value chain and the mining opportunities that lay ahead of us,” he said. Mazowe chief executive, Mr Leo Mufandaedza thanked corporates which managed to clear their dues with council. The companies include Mazowe Citrus Estate, Dericos Mine, Glendale Spinners, Selby Enterprise, Pertanavva Mine, Gwembe Transport, Ruyamuro Fuel Suppliers and Linkfront Firm. Mr Mufandaedza thanked the same firms for participating in developmental activities and corporate social responsibility in the area. He urged other debtors to be responsible citizens, knowing that society was the market for their products and labour. “I also want to thank outstanding individuals at household level who managed to clear their arrears, including Mrs Eunice Sithole, Mrs Matsika and Mrs Mutisi,” said Mr Mufandaedza He lauded hard work by council employees, as the local authority raised the flag of the council high. “Through concerted efforts by our workers and stakeholders, this year we came first at the provincial agriculture show and second at Zimbabwe Investment Authority at national level,” he said.