Cde Mabel Chinomona is being congratulated by delegates after she was appointed Zanu PF Secretary for Women Affairs at the revolutionary party’s extraordinary congress in Harare yesterday.-(Picture by Tawanda Mudimu) Tendai Mugabe Senior Reporter Newly-appointed Zanu-PF Women’s League secretary Cde Mabel Chinomona has urged the party leadership to ensure that members of the G40 cabal who include Professor Jonathan Moyo, Saviour Kasukuwere and Patrick Zhuwao are brought back to the country and answer to corruption charges. The trio skipped the border following Operation Restore Legacy that was launched by the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, which saw Cde Emmerson Mnangagwa becoming President. Professor Moyo, Kasukuwere and Zhuwao were the criminals that surrounded then President, Cde Robert Mugabe and were on the brink of collapsing Zanu-PF and Government. They were taking advantage of their proximity to Cde Mugabe via the then First Lady Grace Mugabe. Addressing delegates at the Zanu-PF Extraordinary Congress yesterday, Cde Chinomona said the Zanu-PF Women’s League felt liberated following the expulsion of Grace Mugabe, whose public utterances had divided the party. Cde Chinomona said comments being made by members of the G40 cabal were not helping matters. “There are some individuals who skipped the country’s borders after Operation Restore Legacy such as Jonathan Moyo, Kasukuwere and recently (Grace) Mugabe,” she said. “We will not rest until these people are brought back and face the full wrath of the law. What they are saying from wherever they are is not helping matters.” Cde Chinomona’s remarks were largely directed to Prof Moyo, who is believed to be in Kenya. He is posting negative comments daily about the new Government on Twitter. Prof Moyo is also facing criminal charges involving defrauding the Zimbabwe Manpower Development Fund of over $400 000, while Mr Kasukuwere was implicated in shady land deals in Chishawasha, among other criminal charges. Cde Chinomona said Mrs Grace Mugabe had captured the Women’s League and her expulsion from the party was a welcome development. She paid tribute to the Zimbabwe Defence Forces for their timely intervention through Operation Restore Legacy that rescued the country from the G40 bondage. “We want to thank our Defence Forces led by General (Constantino) Chiwenga for their intervention,” she said. “They freed us for the second time, but this time from the G40 cabal. We also extend our gratitude to our war veterans led by Cde (Chris) Mutsvangwa. They remained resolute and their efforts have helped us to be where we are today. They were arrested and humiliated, but they remained steadfast.” As the country heads for elections next year, Cde Chinomona urged President Emmerson Mnangagwa to ensure that women also competed for all positions on an equal footing with their male counterparts. “Next year we are going for elections Cde President, we want women to compete for all positions just like their male counterparts from local Government positions up to Parliament,” she said. “We want 50 /50 representation.” The Extraordinary Congress was themed “Consolidating the Gains of Zim-Asset through Unity, Peace and Development’’ and was attended by over 7 000 delegates.