Ocean Mushure Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter AFTER feeling cheated at the recent Castle Lager Premiership Soccer Star of the Year awards, Dynamos skipper Ocean Mushure will be smiling all the way into the festive holidays after he bagged a double of accolades at the Glamour Boys’ end of year awards in Harare last night. As was largely expected, Mushure claimed the biggest award of the night when he was crowned the club’s Player of the Season which carried a $500 prize.  The versatile captain, now in his early 30s, was the toast of the night after he was also rewarded for being The Most Loyal Player which carried with it a $250 cheque. However, gritty midfielder Tichaona Chipunza denied Mushure what could have been a treble after he was voted the Players Player of the Year.  But in a season in which he was an inspirational figure at DeMbare, Mushure was still full value for his award and the left back who was also tasked with playing an advanced attacking role for club and country this season was happy to be rewarded by the Glamour Boys. “This is all a result of teamwork. I would like to thank my teammates for helping me to realise my best potential and also to the leadership of the team for organising these awards. It feels great to be recognised for my efforts. I believe I have worked very hard this year and winning awards will only spur me on to work even harder in the years to come,” said Mushure. Mushure was a second runner up in the Castle Lager Premiership Soccer Star of the Year awards following a fine season with the Glamour Boys. The former Monomotapa man was central in DeMbare’s title campaign which ended with a silver medal after the new champions FC Platinum held on to their two point lead at the top until the final day of the season. The 32-year old chipped in with a number of crucial goals especially from the dead ball as well as providing countless assists to his teammates after coach Lloyd Mutasa deployed him in a more attacking position. Cameroonian import Christian Epoupa also had a huge shout for the Player of the Year award after the big striker arrived in Zimbabwe with a bang and scoring some classy goals. The big forward was among the 11 Soccer Star of the Year finalists. At some point he was in the running for the league’s Golden Boot and was always at hand with some assists. However, his 12 goals were eclipsed by CAPS United’s Dominic Chungwa who lifted the Golden Boot with 17 goals. Still Epoupa was rewarded in absentia last night as the club’s Top Goal Scorer. The 24-year old could not attend the ceremony as he excused himself to go to Cameroon for the festive holidays. From Cameroon Epoupa will connect straight to South Africa where he has been invited for trials by some ABSA Premiership teams. Former CAPS United left back Romario Matova was voted Rookie of the Year. Matova had a late flourish after the technical team thrust him in the left back position late in the season where he commanded play with aplomb. Young Warriors defender Peace Makaha also had an explosive season at right back and his efforts were rewarded with the Most Improved Player award. Makaha’s spirit in the blue and white strip as he roamed from box to box was difficult to ignore and his coach Mutasa, impressed by his work rate, came short of anointing him as a future club captain in one of his post-match interviews. Goalkeeper Tonderai Mateyaunga was voted the Most Disciplined Player while pacy winger Cleopas Kapupurika who is on loan from FC Platinum capped a fine season with the Most Entertaining Player. Holding midfielder Tichaona Chipunza was given the Most Consistent Player award. Chipunza has been one of the players the technical bench relied on the whole season. The former Triangle man featured in 33 of Dynamos’ 34 league matches. Upcoming midfielder Kudzanai Dhemere walked away with the Most Promising Player award, in a season most of the juniors were given a run in the first team by Mutasa as part of his rebuilding exercise. Dynamos finished second on the final log standings with 69 points, two behind champions FC Platinum who battled hard to win their debut league title.  They had not had player awards for some time and the spirited performance by their players under some of the most difficult conditions in the domestic league prompted the club leadership to arrange the awards ceremony as a gesture of appreciation. Dynamos Awards winners Player of the Year: Ocean Mushure Players’ Player of the Year: Tichaona Chipunza Top Goal Scorer: Christian Epoupa Rookie of the Year: Romario Matova Most Disciplined player: Tonderayi Mateyaunga Most Loyal Player: Ocean Mushure Most Improved Player: Peace Makaha Most Entertaining/Exciting Player: Cleopas Kapupurika Most Consistent Player: Tichaona Chipunza Most Promising Player: Kudzanai Dhemere