Dr Mujuru George Maponga Masvingo Bureau Two National People’s Party (NPP) senior members from Masvingo have ditched the opposition party led by former Vice-President Dr Joice Mujuru, joining other senior officials who have already quit. NPP national secretary for legal affairs Mr Rodney Makausi, who is also a prominent Masvingo lawyer, resigned from the beleaguered party which is plagued by serious divisions and infighting in its structures. Mr Makausi was joined by former NPP national executive member Ms Shylet Uyoyo, amid reports that she was retracing her footsteps to Zanu-PF. Ms Uyoyo once served as Masvingo Zanu-PF provincial chair in the Women’s League before becoming a member of ZimPF. ZimPF later split after Dr Mujuru formed NPP. Mr Makausi yesterday could not be drawn into revealing his future plans in politics preferring to be diplomatic over his decision to quit NPP. “I formally resigned from NPP and it would be incorrect to say I ditched the party as such. I exercised my legal and constitutional right to join or leave a political party and in my resignation letter to NPP I clearly stated that I could no longer devote myself to the party because of some new business that I am embarking on,” he said. Mr Makausi added: “I realised I could not balance my business commitments and political work. As for my political future, only time will tell. At the moment I am watching developments that are taking place on the country’s political landscape.” Ms Uyoyo could not be reached for comment, but impeccable party sources said the former members were contemplating re-joining a rejuvenated Zanu-PF under President Emmerson Mnangagwa. NPP national spokesperson Mr Jeffreyson Chitando downplayed Ms Uyoyo and Mr Makausi’s resignations, saying that would not affect the formation’s programmes. “I am yet to officially see their resignation letters since I was busy with family commitments, but I want to make it clear that the decision of the two will not affect the NPP at all. NPP is not made up of two members, but is a mass political party made up of many members who will continue working for it,” he said. Mr Chitando added: “We do not make noise when new members join NPP like what they are doing every day and we see no reason why there should be noise when two members decide to resign.” Dr Mujuru and her party’s fortunes continue to wane by each passing day, amid infighting and serious divisions.