Cde Ncube Munyaradzi Musiiwa Midlands Correspondent Minister of State for Midlands Provincial Affairs Cde Owen Ncube has urged the Zanu-PF provincial political leadership to focus on uniting people and desist from jostling for positions ahead of the 2018 harmonised elections. Addressing villagers and party supporters at Rusununguko High School in Shurugwi, Minister Ncube said the party should regroup and focus more on uniting people than being worried with who was going to represent which constituency in the next harmonised elections. Minister Ncube said the main focus was to deliver in their respective positions and stop pursuing individual interests, as this was retrogressive to development. “Let me inform our party leadership that this is not the time of purges, witch-hunting or victimisation based on political affiliation. Let us focus on uniting people within the party and mobilising those that are outside to join the revolutionary party which has for many years proved beyond reasonable doubt that it is people centred,” he said. Minister Ncube said recent past events were a “fumigation’a of the party against individuals bent of destroying the gains of the revolution. He said Government was going to decisively deal with corruption which contributed significantly towards the dwindling of the economy. Minister Ncube said the political leadership and the people in general should take heed of President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s call for peace and unity. “As per President Mnangagwa’s inaugural speech, as well as his address at the just ended Zanu-PF extra-ordinary people’s congress, we must work together,” he said. “Peace and harmony should characterise how we relate to each other before, during and after the 2018 harmonised elections. “I, therefore, urge you to stay united and focused. Corruption should stop forthwith. Our President has zero tolerance for corruption which had suffocated our economy. At our different levels we should fight corruption and expose its perpetrators.”