Africa Moyo Property Reporter ASPINDALE Park held a Christmas party for its housing stand holders last Saturday as part of efforts to bring them together for the first time and potentially make them familiarise with each other. Held under the theme, “Meet your neighbours this Christmas”, the party attracted several beneficiaries under the housing project. A raffle conducted later in the day saw a stand holder, Kennedy Mudavanhu, winning a 200 square metre stand, as part of Aspindale’s corporate social responsibility programme. Head of marketing, Lucy Tandi, told Herald Property yesterday that: “This was a ‘Meet your neighbour Christmas party’ where we wanted Aspindale Park residents to formally meet for the first time as one big happy community, as we seek to build ‘a community like no other. “We chose to give a stand to a stand holder as part of our corporate social responsibility programme. Charity begins at home, so giving back to our residents was our initiative towards our CSR. We have more CSR programmes to come.” Aspindale Park has already won a CSR award from the Harare Metropolitan Province business desk in recognition of its efforts towards building better communities in the country. The award was handed over on December 8. The Aspindale Park aspires to be the best scheme in the country. It has so far obtained a certificate of compliance from the City of Harare, paving the way for the allocation of title deeds to beneficiaries of residential stands under Phase One. Aspindale Park has also entered into an agreement with five banks — the National Building Society (NBS), FBC, Cabs, ZB Bank and Stanbic — which are now set to assist beneficiaries of stands with mortgages. Phase One is now ready to build and at the moment, they are working on sewer, water and culverts for each residential stand while a security fence is also being erected. Phase One has 382 stands, while servicing of stands under Phase II — which has 400 stands — is also underway. Ms Tandi said Aspindale Park is expected to start servicing stands under Phase III of the project next year. The whole project has 1 200 stands, and uptake of the stands is expected to rise significantly in the next few months driven by mortgage facilities that the company has organised with five banks. The mortgages vary but run up to 25 years. Aspindale Park has completed its show house — a three bedroom, two bathroom house on a 200 square metre stand. The show house is aimed at showing customers what their future homes would look like. Other stands will measure 360 square metres. The Aspindale Park project is already setting a new standard for development in the country. It is located in a prime area just 8km from Harare’s Central Business District. The stands are serviced to the highest quality including tarred roads, sewer, water and Zesa connections as well as additional luxury items such as security fence around the development, solar street lights, and planting of trees. Aspindale Park says it is determined to make its housing project one of the best developments in Zimbabwe and rival any such projects elsewhere in the world. Apart from mortgages, there are a number of payment plans ranging from one to five years, which potential customers can consider. The Aspindale Park project is a 56 hectare development that will have two schools, churches, a clinic, retail space. City of Harare has already approved the development plan.