Willard Katsande Mukudzei Chingwere Sports Reporter FORMER Warriors captain and Kaizer Chiefs midfield hardman Willard Katsande has turned into a true elder brother and recently took time to advise, Ajax Cape Town newboy Gerald Takwara to work hard at his new club. Takwara flew to South Africa yesterday after completing his long awaited move to the South African Premier League. The former Tsholotsho man was on the same flight from Harare with Katsande whose Xmas break has had to be short as Kaizer Chiefs will be back to at work to prepare for the resumption of the ABSA Premiership on January 6. Although he had been spotted by Stanley Menzo while featuring for the Warriors during the COSAFA Castle Cup in South Africa in June, Takwara will now be working under the tutelage of Turkish mentor Muhsin Ertugral who recently replaced the fired Dutchman. Ajax Cape Town were the first club that Katsande also played for when he left Gunners to make his break in the South African top-flight. Katsande took the opportunity to share with Takwara, his experience at Ajax Cape Town and advised the 22-year-old midfielder on the demands of the Urban Warriors. “Last week I was with Willard and today we are going together to South Africa. He told me a lot about what to expect when I start playing for Ajax and football in general in the South African league. “But most importantly he told me to work hard when I get there, he said my coach (Ertugral) also likes to work with people who are hard-working. He told me that supporters there want the best out of us and that it was important for me to hit the ground running so that my abilities will not be questioned,” said Takwara. Interestingly Takwara plays in similar position as Katsande and should he make an immediate impact at Ajax Cape Town it could help the Urban Warriors fans to relive some of the impressions that the latter made before leaving for Kaizer Chiefs. Takwara also vowed not to relax and said he would use his time in the South African Mother City as a stepping stone to build on his career. The former FC Platinum midfielder wants to follow the footsteps of, Katsande and Khama Billiat who began their South African Premiership careers at Ajax before moving to Chiefs and Mamelodi Sundowns. “I have watched those guys play and previously trained with them, the only difference in their game and the one we played at FC Platinum is pace and that is the area I will have to adjust which is not a problem. After completing this move I want to use it for better things to come in football I want it to be a gateway to greater things in football. “But playing there will not be easy and first thing is first I will have to adjust to the demands of the coach and the club before I can think of anything else. To FC Platinum I want to say thank you for the time I spent with them and I wish them all the best in the African Safari and other competitions,” said Takwara. Ajax Cape Town also have strong links with Dutch Eredivisie giants Ajax Amsterdam and should Takwara impresses at the club, it could provide the gateway to him for European football.