Rodwell Dhlakama Mukudzei Chingwere Sports Reporter After failing in their bid to prize away former championship winning coach Lloyd Chitembwe from CAPS United, ZPC Kariba have now lined up Rodwell Dhlakama as their main target to lead their technical department next season. The ZPC Kariba coaching job remains vacant following the departure of Sunday Chidzambwa at the end of the season, with the veteran mentor having recently returned to the national team fold. Chidzambwa left under a cloud as the seasoned gaffer had fallen out with the executive who had targeted Chitembwe as a replacement, but the latter chose to remain with his current employers. Although the club is monitoring the situation of coaches like Joey Antipas, the executive is said to have decided to give the reigns to Dhlakama. Contacted for comment, the club spokesperson Fadzai Chisveto said the last time she checked the club was still in the process of identifying the best person for the job before referring questions to the chairman, Tungamirai Mazarire. “I am on holiday I am not aware of the latest developments but you can talk to the chairman. The last time I checked they were still recruiting so I am not sure how far they are with the process,” said Chisveto. Without dismissing the possibility of hiring Dhlakama, the club chairman Mazarire referred questions back to Chisveto. “Our PR is the one who address questions from the media so contact her she will give you the latest developments at the club,” said Muzarire. Despite attempts by the club to conceal their target coach a high-placed source within the team has exclusively told The Herald Sport that Dhlakama is a front runner to take the job and arrangements are afoot to engage him. “The club is still exploring options but Dhlakama is the main target to be appointed as the coach. The secretary (Robert Mamvura) of the club was told to contact him about the possibility of coming to the club and by now he is supposed to have called the coach. As you might be aware Dhlakama is employed at Chapungu and there will be need to sort out his release by his current employers,” said the source. Dhlakama worked with junior teams for a long a time, and is regarded a specialist in moulding raw talent with a proven record of success with the Young Warriors and provincial teams at junior level. The current Chapungu technical director has for a long time worked and succeeded behind the scenes, in 2008 he was appointed technical advisor at Monomotapa, the former took the reins in week six after then Coach Norman Mapeza had lost his five opening league games. Their partnership then knitted together 16 consecutive victories after Dhlakama had assumed the reins as technical advisor and they went on to win the title that year, beating perennial champions Dynamos to the ultimate price. The following year in 2009 Dhlakama led the team in the African Safari after Mapeza had left the club and went on to post impressive victories on the continent beating the likes of Ivorian giants ASEC Mimosas and South African premiership outfit Ajax Cape Town. At Chapungu he was appointed the technical advisor to coach Tendai Chikuni, the former had collected a single point in his first five matches at the club but after teaming up with Dhlakama they went on to knit some impressive results, which saved them from the drop with some games still to play.