GLS-Mercedes-Benz Tinashe Makichi Motoring With time, with success and with experience, ambitions don’t diminish. The journey just gets more enjoyable. More effortless. Safer. Everything feels easier on the road in the new Mercedes GLS, the SUV of the S-Class.  Peace and serenity? You’ve never experienced them like this before. Power? More than enough. Limits? None that we’re aware of. It’s an art mastered by very few: the GLS commands its surroundings just by being there — and with an enticingly high-quality design. Characteristic features include the power domes on the bonnet and the filigree pattern of the radiator grille with its large three-pointed star. This three-dimensional effect is extremely complex to design and produce, but it gives the front end of the GLS its signature look. Masculine, self-assuredly sporty — on a Mercedes the size of the GLS, every component is a statement. The powerful rear end with integrated tailpipe trim in a distinctive design, the chrome-look load sill guard and the two-piece full-LED rear light clusters help to define the dynamic character of the GLS. The darker it gets, the more they stand out – for that perfect appearance. Travel in the GLS is so luxurious that you really ought to share it. Three rows of seats as standard offer top-level comfort and ample space for up to seven occupants. The seats can be used very flexibly, featuring as they do backrest angle adjustment for the second row and electric folding for the third. Heated seats are available as an option for the rear as well. The comfort, the space, the equipment and appointment options — no question about it, the GLS is as if made for long, relaxed journeys. That’s why there’s an S in GLS. It represents the comfort of an S-Class. But there’s a G there too — and at Mercedes-Benz that stands above all for: harder, higher, further. Our competence with all things off-road is legendary, a reputation established above all by the indestructible G-Class. There’s more than just one letter of that name in the GLS: simply press the “Offroad” button to activate the off-road transmission mode. This adjusts the suspension and drive components to the optimum configuration. A further available option is the off-road engineering package, which includes a low-range gearbox, a differential lock on the centrer differential, protective panelling for the engine and an adjustable ride height. Sometimes air can be a real luxury. When we take a very deep breath, when we feel a rough wind blowing through our hair or when travelling in the GLS. The air inside the car can be ionised, if you so wish, so perceptibly improving your sense of well being, The AIRMATIC air suspension with the ADS PLUS Adaptive Damping System also cushions the car’s occupants at a whole new level of comfort. Further features include the 9G-TRONIC 9-speed automatic transmission and numerous driving assistance systems that are available in this class of vehicle. It is hard to think of a more comfortable, more assured and safer way to travel.