Cde Mandiwanzira Manicaland Bureau NYANGA Rural District Council has been commended for its improved health service delivery after it recorded no maternal deaths for the year 2017. Speaking at the Staff Wellness Day for health workers in Nyanga RDC held last Friday, Nyanga South MP Cde Supa Mandiwanzira urged health workers to keep up the good work. Cde Mandiwanzira was the guest of honour at the glittering event which was attended by more than 200 participants. The event was hosted by Nyanga General Hospital in collaboration with the Nyanga is Supa Foundation where Cde Mandiwanzira is the patron. “You are a critical staff and I have been observing the good work that you have been doing. Even the community has been telling me stories about the good experiences that they have at your facilities,” he said. “This year alone, you managed to have over 75 patients with cataracts get free operations. We are also celebrating the fact that you had no maternal deaths for the whole of this year. We are also celebrating the establishment of the first Health Post in Zimbabwe at Bende.” Cde Mandiwanzira said he was excited to note that malaria related deaths were declining in Nyanga. He said the development was welcome, not only in Nyanga but in Zimbabwe at large. “I also remember that at the Malaria World Day commemorations held at Ruwangwe we highlighted that deaths related to malaria were coming down. I say congratulations to you all. I would like to say keep on the good work. Keep working hard for the people of Zimbabwe. Today was the day for you to take stock of your health as health workers and get to have a run,” he said. Nyanga District Medical Superintendent Dr Admore Jokwiro said they were looking forward to making the event annual. “This is the first time that we had an event of this nature and as we all saw it has been a huge success,” he said. “Going forward, the vision is definitely to make this an annual event. I would like to urge the staff to keep on working hard so that the community continue appreciating them.” Dr Jokwiro thanked stakeholders who made the event a success. The Wellness programme constituted various sporting activities such as volley ball, tug of war, athletics, music and soccer. Officials from CIMAS Mutare and Lancet Laboratories made presentations. The healthcare workers divided themselves into four teams named after local tourist attractions — Nyangani, Mutarazi, Nyangombe and Tsanga. Team Mutarazi captained by Dr Alice Mulema and vice captained by Mr Admire Kasu emerged winners in Volleyball, Soccer and Tug-of-War.