The God we serve is a generational God. From generation-to-generation he has been God and faithful. What he did for others in times of old he can do for you today. There should be a desire in you to be God’s choice and grab the mantle, the jacket! You should tell yourself it’s mine, it’s mine and it will surely be yours! Let’s get in the word and see how Elisha was desperate for the jacket and he got a double portion of Elijah’s anointing! When they had crossed, Elijah said to Elisha, “Tell me, what can I do for you before I am taken from you?” “Let me inherit a double portion of your spirit,” Elisha replied. “You have asked a difficult thing,” Elijah said, “yet if you see me when I am taken from you, it will be yours—otherwise, it will not.” As they were walking along and talking together, suddenly a chariot of fire and horses of fire appeared and separated the two of them, and Elijah went up to heaven in a whirlwind. Elisha saw this and cried out, “My father! My father! The chariots and horsemen of Israel!” And Elisha saw him no more. Then he took hold of his garment and tore it in two. Elisha then picked up Elijah’s cloak that had fallen from him and went back and stood on the bank of the Jordan. (2 Kings 2:9-13). The story didn’t start where we read above, no! It starts with the same jacket hitting Elisha when he was ploughing. Elisha’s relationship with Elijah starts with a jacket and ends with the same jacket. Elijah first hit Elisha with the jacket just like this “paaa”. But before then, Elisha should have desired something big in his life. Ladies and gentlemen the anointing cannot be replaced. You need the anointing upon your life! He was busy minding his business, but God located him! Before 2017 is over may a powerful anointing hit your life! O hallelujah! I remember many years ago when my friend and I went to church and saw people being filled by the Holy Ghost, some crying and praying powerfully. We would look, point and say to each other, O look at that one, look at that one. This one is too much! It was fun to us, and we would strategically sit on a bench where we would see much in the church. Friends when the hour has come, the anointing of the Living God will seize you! Whoever you are reading this article your time is now! I went back alone this time to the church. This time I didn’t laugh. It touched me. I began to wonder why these people were crying as they pray yet seemingly joyful and peaceful. I began to figure out they had something I didn’t have. From that time I grew restless and began to desire greatly the touch of the Lord over my life. Finally one Easter Saturday at church an elderly man preached and said when you get home let this be your prayer, Jesus tomorrow rise up in my heart! I got home, drank my tea and got into my pyjamas. I knelt on the bed and began to quietly pray Jesus tomorrow rise up in my heart! Jesus, tomorrow rise up in my heart! Without realising it my voice grew a bit louder bit louder and louder till I was calling at the top of my voice, Jesus tomorrow rise up in my heart! Something was happening! That night something I don’t forget happened. I was gloriously touched by the Spirit in a special way and amongst other things that happened I spoke in a beautiful language I had not learnt or spoken before! (I will share more on another day in a separate article on this experience and encounter.) O I had got it, I had got it. What joy filled my soul! I was never the same again! My friend you could be living your life and minding your own business like Elisha, yet the jacket is looking for you! When that jacket came, everything about Elisha changed. When the jacket of the spirit comes upon you everything about you changes. Nothing remains the same. You could have been a wife-beater, a violent man, distraught youth, broken at heart and looking for purpose and direction but when the jacket comes, purpose comes! When the jacket comes a new life comes! If any man be in Christ behold he is a new creature! Elisha left everything and ran after Elijah and served him till the day he was taken to heaven! It’s an honour for that jacket to come upon your life. It’s an honour to serve the Most High. Educated or not educated, great or small, male or female, it is an honour to serve the Living God. Even if you are not considered to be somebody in your family but when the jacket comes, everything will be different. What I know for sure is when the jacket hits you, your tomorrow will be better than your yesterday! Elisha’s life was never the same! You also will never be the same! O hallelujah! The jacket is yours! For with God all things are possible (Mark 10:27).