Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter GWINYAI Tongoona is optimistic of getting his tenure as captain off to a bright start when Zimbabwe begin their campaign in the Europe/Africa Zone Group II next year. The former Davis Cup team player takes over from Martin Dzuwa, who has been in charge of the side for the past few years. Zimbabwe’s first assignment is on the weekend of February 3-4 against Turkey at Harare Sports Club. With Turkey ranked 49 on the Davis Cup rankings while Zimbabwe are number 73, Tongoona acknowledges they have a tough assignment ahead of them. Zimbabwe are coming from Africa Zone Group III where they won the promotional play-offs to bounce back into Group II. “Obviously Group III the level is not high than in Group II because you are looking at maybe the teams playing in Group III some of the top players in those teams are maybe ranked top 300, 400 in the world. “And look at Turkey, their top two players they are both in top 200, I think in the world, so they are a little bit tougher. But I don’t think they are much tougher than our number 1 and 2 (Takanyi and Benjamin) and then playing at home with home support I think we have a chance, we have to take our chances there. “But definitely yes I hope that I can help the team to pull of some wins there because we have a tough match against Turkey. But I think playing at home we can put up a fight and try and win that one,” said Tongoona. Tongoona said it’s an honour to be leading the team and paid tribute to the players who have represented the country over the years. “I think it’s a big honour to be part of the team again. I think I was non-playing captain (in) 2009 I think. But unfortunately I had to stop because of work commitment I couldn’t travel. “But I think over the years anyone who has been in the team has always been about the team and trying to win matches to progress the country to the next round. So I am looking forward to the challenge. “I think I have worked with some of the players before, when they were juniors. Takanyi I went with him to the All-Africa Games, I think we won the gold medal there, in 2011. So I basically know most of the team already,” said Tongoona. The new Davis Cup captain is expected to name his final team next month from a squad of six, comprising of Takanyi Garanganga, the Lock brothers — Benjamin and Courtney, Mehluli Sibanda, Tadiwa Chinamo and Mark Chigaazira. “Look for me I think it’s basically what everybody else wants just to do our best and hopefully pull off a win. If everyone can come out and give 100 percent for the team then if we don’t pull through then tough luck. “But I think we have to give ourselves the best chance to pull through. So I expect the guys to come fit, ready and leave everything on the court when they are playing,” said Tongoona. Sibanda last Wednesday clinched the Junior Sports-person of the Year and Junior Sportsman of the Year awards at the Annual National Sports Awards in Harare.