Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter IT’S that time of the year again when the country celebrates outstanding Zimbabwean athletes from various sporting codes at the Annual National Sports Awards which are on tonight in Harare. The awards are organised to recognise and celebrate the highest sports accomplishments by athletes, administrators and technical officials in 2017. For the Sports-person of the Year award the contest is likely to be between karateka Samson Muripo and body-builder Helen Costa Sinclair. Muripo was nominated for the Sportsman of the Year accolade alongside Brian Chiringa another karateka and golfer Nyasha Mauchaza. The former world champion clinched gold at the Third International So-Kyokushin Karate tournament senior men open weight early this year, in Iran. He then came second in the Under-90kg weight division and third in the kata competition at the same event and is a favourite to win the Sportsman of the Year award. But for the Sports-person of the Year accolade he is likely to face tough competition from Sinclair, who is also up for the Sportswoman of the Year award together with Selina Manuel, a body-builder also and long distance runner Rutendo Nyahora. Sinclair was on top of her game as she underlined her status as a top female body-builder when she claimed pole position in the Arnold Classic Africa Women Body Fitness (Under 163cm) category in May. Sports Commission acting director-general, Joseph Muchechetere said they are looking forward to an exciting ceremony tonight. “We are waiting for this annual beautiful event. We have received overwhelming support from the public and corporates to host a memorable event tomorrow (today). “What is also interesting to know from the public is that this time the acknowledgement award includes the people and organisations that have significantly contributed to the development of sport and recreation,” said Muchechetere. The awards will be graced by the new Minister of Sport, Arts and Recreation Kazembe Kazembe. For the Junior Sportsman of the Year, the contest will feature rising triple jumper Chengetayi Mapaya, swimmer Terence Liam O’Hara and tennis star Mehluli Sibanda. Tanyaradzwa Muzinda from motocross will be vying for the Junior Sportswoman of the Year award together with rower Holly Bicknell and Emily Tariro Jones. The Sports Commission retained all the 17 categories and six of them will be announced tonight and they include the Sports Administration and Sports Development which are mainly to do with governance issues and development of sport. Nominees Junior Sportswoman of the Year: Holly Bicknell (rowing), Emily Tariro Jones (golf), Tanyaradzwa Muzinda (motocross). Junior Sportsman of the Year: Chengetayi Mapaya (athletics), Terence Liam O’Hara (swimming), Mehluli Don Ayanda Sibanda (tennis). Junior Sportswoman of the Year with a Disability: Pelagia Chidhakwa (athletics IC), Elizabeth Matupe (athletics T12), Siphosami Moyo (athletics T11). Junior Sportsman of the Year with a disability: Munorwa Changakungwa (athletics T46), Raymond Nyati (athletics T11), Edmore Solomon (athletics T46). Sportswoman of the Year: Helen Costa Sinclair (bodybuilding), Selina Manuel (bodybuilding), Rutendo Nyahora (athletics). Sportsman of the Year: Brian Chiringa (karate), Nyasha Mauchaza (golf), Samson Muripo (karate). Sportswoman of the Year with a Disability: Margaret Bangajena (wheelchair racing), Thandiwe Ndlovu (wheelchair racing), Ratidzo Tomu (wheelchair racing).   Sportsman of the Year with a Disability: Elford Moyo (wheelchair racing), Michael Mudyanadzo (golf Special Olympics), Samson Muroyiwa (wheelchair racing). Team of the Year: Zimbabwe Cricket Team (cricket), Zimbabwe Rugby Sevens (Cheetahs) (rugby), Kenneth Raynor and Keegan Smith (rowing). Coach of the Year: Kristine Johnson (rowing), Gilbert Nyamutsamba (rugby), Heath Hilton Streak (cricket). Technical Official of the Year: Agnes Chiroodza (netball), Annie Joyce Muchenu (basketball), Patrick Mukondiwa (boxing). Sports Administration of the Year (to be announced on the ANSA ceremony). Sports Development of the Year (to be announced on the ANSA ceremony). Women and Sports Award (to be announced on the ANSA ceremony), Special Acknowledgement Award (to be announced on the ANSA ceremony). Junior Sportsperson of the Year (to be announced on the ANSA ceremony). Sportsperson of the Year (to be announced on the ANSA ceremony).