The late writer Penny Beaven Tapureta 2017 has ended badly for the Zimbabwean literary family as it lost one of its own on December 23, two days before Christmas. Brian Tafadzwa Penny, a multi-talented writer, was involved in a road car accident on his way to his rural home in Chimanimani. According to information shared by CJ Milton Chitsime with whom Penny worked as directors for Forteworx Press, the accident also claimed the wife and daughter of our author’s young brother. For fellow writers such as those he worked with as an arts promoter by passion, his sudden departure was unbearable. Christmas was bleak without Penny. And yet, as they say and we believe, writers never die. His published works and memories of our togetherness will timelessly stick with us. Back in the 90’s, the days of the Budding Writers Association of Zimbabwe, Penny was one of the active members of the Harare Chapter. Some of the new writers shining today are products of the association. His poems are featured in anthologies such as “Zviri Mugapu” (2014), “Dzinonyandura” (2014) which is an ‘A’ Level literature set-book and was once nominated for the NAMA awards, “Tsuro Ndisunge” (2015), “Flowers of a Dry Season” and “Ink of a New Generation”. His short stories appear in the anthologies “True Lies” (2015) and “Outside The Garden of Eden”, the latest publication by his publishing stable. Penny also ventured into film, actually writing and directing a short film called “Nowadays — Love In the Park”. He also published a children’s book titled “Makiti and Other Stories”. As a journalist, he contributed arts articles to a local newspaper NewsDay. According to Milton Chitsime, Forteworx Press will early next year publish a collection of tributes to Penny from different quarters. The passing on of Penny pained everyone who knew him in various arts associations where he belonged. The planned publication of tributes is surely deserved for the man who believed in the pen. Below are a few hurriedly gleaned from “WINZIM Classic”, a Whatsapp group for the Zimbabwean new generation of writers and poets. Moving poems, songs, and memories were shared for Penny. Penny, the thoughtful pen-pusher, was laid to rest in Chimanimani. It was such a painful moment for friends and relatives yet we will forever celebrate his talent. May his soul rest in peace. Below are poems that fellow writers dedicated to Penny:   On the other day (by Aleck Kaposa) He was here Writing He was one of us Together yearning for the survival Of the written word Whoever knew this unexpected storm Which fate had in stock? Now A recent text message to him lies unanswered Lo and behold, only silence and sorrow…   Tsaona uri njodzi (by Tinashe Muchuri) Tisina kufungira hama kana Shamwari yapfuura Unoda ropa handiti! Unoridirepi parisingazari? Unongoda raivo vakazvigwinyira! Hausarudzi Harahwa kana vacheche Zinyamukonyira! Zifunji! Chigoro! Ramasase! Wandigumbura!   Penny where is your pen? (by Chenjerai Mhondera) Scribble one more word, We want to erase pain! Sorrow hangs in our heads your fellows Tears in our eyes drop In that swift courier You went so fast To lift eyes to see you go Oh we were too late Although gone Between sheets of that books You live forever Immortal telling of your story The verses of that poem Lyrics of that song Run down memory lane T-Penny, T-pain…!   Tafambiswa tsoka imwe imwe sezvana (by Tamutswa Muzana) Dhe-dhe takananga kwatisingazivi Kunozivikanwa nemudhanaidzi Asi zvedu zviso zvichipenya nenyemwerero Zivo yekuti mudhanaidzi ndiye mwene weraramo Yotikotsirisa nyangwe takagarira nhanzva Tikasasvika rwendo rwepanyika Rwokumusoro tinosvika Vanosara bararanwa kuzhamba Asi mwene weupenyu harasiki Anotiisa panzvimbo nenguva Nekubwaira kweziso Brian Tafadzwa Penny wakwidza Zvironga tunge pahwendefa yemoyo yevasara Asi redu gamba harina kurasika Ratorwa nenguva sekudanwa kwatichaitwa tose Zvake zvinyorwa uve munyu kumaronda edu.   Inyembezi zethu zigcwele (Tapiwa Mugozori) Imibuzo, Sasithi kumbe uhambo lwethu Lulaqala, Sijabulela uzibuse wesibili Simunye, Usitshiyele ingqobe mfoka Penny, Ukujula kolimi sizokuthapa Kubani? Imibuzo yonke izophendulwa Ngubani? Lala ngoxolo qhawe lezingwalo, Silindele elakusasa, lapho Sizogiya ndaonye ngosuku lokucina, Kuwe TP Brian, indoda emadodeni.