Robert Mukondiwa Zandi’s Place at Alliance Française de Harare may be a place where people dine, but sometimes on the menu is a foot ready to be shoved in the mouth, so musician and seasoned mariachi Josh Meck has learnt. After having played on a Sunday at the place with the understanding that as he did not have a POS (Point Of Sale) machine, his money for his band and himself would be transferred to him last Tuesday, Josh could not have fathomed what awaited him from the joint’s rather foul-mouthed owner Zandi Mubi. Having enquired about the payment, Josh was told the transfer would be made another day as Ms Mubi’s father’s Personal Assistant was writing their exams and would pay on a day when they returned. Zandi is daughter to former heavyweight arts industry player Peter Mubi and Debbie Mubi, the former whose PA was supposedly writing exams. Asked why he had been shaken somewhat slightly by the change of pay date, Josh Meck replied; “Just that I was told Tuesday so the band expected today so I have to explain to them.” But this did not go down well with Ms Mubi who then dug deep into her bag of rude sarcasm which would make the devil sound like the patron saint of politeness and replied via voice note; “if you’d like to pay a PA to come to my dad’s office temporarily and send the money to you I’m totally fine with that. If not you can be patient and wait or next time please feel free bring you own swipe machine. Thank you!” Having posted on his Facebook wall to solicit thoughts from his followers over his encounter with appropriate register evil, the internet went berserk and cursed the foot-in-mouth meal Ms Mubi had just sat down for. In spite of Josh not having posted her name, Zandi Mubi’s mother let the cat out of the bag by defending Zandi and going further to put the blame on Josh’s shoulders. Mr Peter Mubi, when reached for comment, said while they had no responsibility for paying bands which should possibly organise their own swipe machines and not use the restaurants’ machines, he did not believe in the decorum or lack thereof shown by his daughter, reminding the world of his contribution to the arts over the years before referring back to his daughter. “You know that’s not the case (a culture of being rude to artistes). I relate to most of these bands because I gave most of them a platform as well as supplying instruments to many at no charge for over thirty years,” he said in relation to his daughter’s insolence. Debbie Mubi meanwhile, on Josh’s page, went into the legality and revenue matrix before she snarled “do you pay tax? Are you registered with Zimra?” Interestingly, after getting the call with regards the impasse. Zandi’s Place paid Josh at around 9pm on Tuesday via the Ecocash platform through an intermediary who also begged that Josh remove his Facebook post as well as beg the media to shove the story in the spike bin. Perhaps the PA had finished writing exams just three hours or so before midnight and made the dutiful transfer? In a meeting with this newspaper at her establishment, Zandi spoke of how she had been ‘friends’ with Josh and had meant this in a light tone. That is in spite of the tinge in her voice over and above that she was obviously not friends with Josh’s band members and their families who obviously were looking forward to getting something for the festive season on time. “It was pure sarcasm and it’s unfortunate that he missed it, for someone that I have known and have worked with for the past 2 years, she said. “I was shocked that when I heard that he had taken the issue to Facebook and to the media. We just had an administrative challenge that saw the payment delaying by only a day and honestly for someone I have worked with for over 2 years without any such challenges, I feel it was unfair of Josh to do that.” “He is someone that I joke with even outside work such that I did not think he would miss the sarcasm in my statement. It was purely sarcasm and for him to take it that far, honestly it’s not fair. I have never had any payment challenges with him before and if he is going to be honest enough, he would tell you the same.” Another artiste speaking on condition of anonymity said he had since stopped having a relationship with the joint or pursuing his money from Zandi after a similar altercation which left him unpaid for his services. “I paid my band members and decided to move on,” said the artiste, his voice teeming with explosive emotion. A whole avalanche of ‘wronged’ artistes also descended from the Alps of the arts in complaints that seemed destined to bury Zandi. It was clear however that Zandi rubs her nose on the sleeve of respect and civility. But then again her surname in the great Ndebele language means ‘ugly’. At the end of the day the general agreement was a little bit of decorum and Listerine is in order for the abrasive restaurant owner! ◆ For feedback on this article and follow up email robertmukondiwa@gmail.com