Monica Mutsvangwa Obert Chifamba Manicaland Bureau Stakeholders from various sectors must continuously engage victims and perpetrators of Gender Based Violence (GBV) to change their mindsets, prevent future incidents and protect non-perpetrators from adopting the vice, an official has said. In a speech read on her behalf by deputy director for provincial affairs in her office Mr Lucky Basopo, Minister of State for Manicaland Provincial Affairs, Monica Mutsvangwa, told stakeholders commemorating 16 Days of Activism Against Gender Based Violence in Mutare recently that the move would create safe space for women and girls. She said Government had launched the “Zero Tolerance on GBV365: A National Programme on GBV and Response 2016-2020”. “This is a commitment by the Government of Zimbabwe to eradicate all forms of GBV. The document gives policy guidelines on GBV intervention and promotes gender equality in the country and is premised on five pillars — Prevention, Services, Research, Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. Minister Mutsvangwa said she was encouraged by seeing stakeholders from all sectors gathered for the occasion, adding that she was convinced the programme would succeed. This year’s international theme for the commemoration was: “From Peace in the Home to Peace in the World: Make Education Safe for all”, while the local theme was: “From Peace in the Home to Peace in World; Creating Safe spaces for women and girls.” Officials from Government, Mutare City Council and non-governmental organisations attended the event, which started with a march from Zimunya to Turner Memorial Library in the city centre. Minister Mutsvangwa commended City of Mutare for creating a Gender Desk Sub-Committee Council comprising gender focal persons from all departments to spearhead the interests of workers. She said since 2014, Mutare City had joined Government, NGOs, community-based organisations and the international community in raising awareness, influencing behavioural change and securing high level commitment to end GBV. “Councillors and management have offered great support towards this noble campaign,” said Minister Mutsvangwa.