“Honour thy father and mother; (which is the first commandment with promise;)That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth” (Ephesians 6:2-3). Parents are very important because without them we would not be there. Paul, in this scripture above is making us understand the difference that is there between the 10 Commandments. Each commandment has its own benefits, but the commandment to honour parents has a promise attached to it. God commanded that you honour your father and mother so that you will live long on earth. All of us would want things to be well with us and it comes with honouring your father and mother. In the scripture above, Paul is not just talking about living long because sometimes it is possible to live long and yet nothing going well with you. When you honour your parents, you will live long and during that time, all will be well with you. It is very important to appreciate people we should appreciate. Honouring your parents sometimes goes beyond greeting them. If you would really want to analyse the word “honour”, it even means adding value to them or making them more relevant. Honour also means you do not have to make them regret why they gave birth to you. The moment you begin to do what is right, your parents will become proud of you. They will always talk about you and would want the whole world to know that they are your parents because of the way you would be living and the lifestyle you would have developed. That is the kind of honour you should put upon your parents. You have to live a life that they can admire and thank God for you. They should not be shy to talk about you, neither should they be ashamed of you. Do the best you can, knowing that by doing so you are also putting value upon your parents. You should not make them cry or regret; do the best to honour and respect them. The scripture has advised us that there is a benefit you get when you begin to honour your parents; you benefit life and everything becomes well with you. If you look in the book of Genesis when God created everything, He took the dust of the ground and formed the flesh and breathed into it and there was life. Man then became a living soul. The rest of the animals God created came out of the ground and if you look at the vegetation, it also came out of the ground. If you look at the fish of the sea, when you bring them out of water they die. When you uproot a tree from the ground, it dies. Even if you remove an animal from the earth where it was taken from and take it to any other planet, it dies. Everything God created should remain in contact with its origin. If the tree is coming from the dust of the ground, it has to remain in touch with the ground. If there is any disconnection between the tree and the ground, the tree will begin to die, not the ground. If you bring out a fish from water, it is not the water that dies, but the fish. You have to know that you originated from your parents and the moment you are disconnected from them you will begin to die, not them. That is why the Bible says that if you honour your parents, you will live long because that is your source of life. Every fish has to understand that if it is taken out of water it dies. When you are disconnected from your source, which is your parents, you will begin to die. It is not just your own death, but everything about you will begin to perish. If you have any differences with your parents, resolve those differences. Reunite and reconnect, otherwise it is you that dies because that is where your physical aspect is coming from. Parents are supposed to be respected. We are no longer living as long as we were supposed to live during our time. In the old times, people used to reach 700 years or more because they had so much respect for their parents and for the elderly. These days, elderly people are being undermined by young and immature people. They are being insulted openly by young people and that is why most people are dying early. Nowadays any simple disease can kill people because they are no longer immune; they have opened up themselves to demons by fighting against their places of origin. If you start fighting against your mother, that will be the end of you, it does not matter which church you attend, you will begin to die. It will not matter who prays for you or who you pray with, if you do not honour your parents you are not going anywhere. Even before you can begin to trust certain people with your money or time, you have to do an analysis. Look into their lives and find out how their parents are surviving.Before you can call somebody a friend, look into his life; get on a journey, visit their parents and find out how they are living and how your friend is living. You might not have enough money for yourself or your immediate family, even to talk about looking after your mother may be really a tough assignment, but love is not all about money or buying them groceries. Sometimes just being there means a lot for your parents. But if there is something you can do for them, you have to because it is health and life for you. When God begins to bless you, the blessing does not just belong to you, you should make other people to also benefit from that blessing. In life you prosper so that you can also make other people prosper. The Bible teaches us to look after our own family and if we fail in doing that, it says we are worse that infidels. We have to do our best in terms of caring for our parents, loving them and supplying whatever they need. We have to pay attention to what they are going through and you will see that things will get well with you. As a man of God, before you can pray for a person, you have to know what they are going through and why they are going through it. Fighting with parents is the number one demon fighting most people. Praying for people that are not in good books with their parents, your prayers will not work as a man of God. You cannot bless people who are not honouring their parents.