Dr Sacrifice Chirisa  Mental Health Matters Two weeks ago I was greatly privileged to be the guest of honour and keynote speaker at an IPMZ inaugural Charity dinner to fundraise for the mental health cause in this nation. I was thrilled by how leaders of industry are now opening up to the idea of embracing mental health matters and that there is no health without mental health. I do acknowledge that a lot of progress has been made, but more still needs to be done. The statistics speak for themselves. It is a known fact that mental illness and substance abuse are major drivers of healthcare costs for businesses and corporations. Individuals with mental illnesses and/or substance abuse disorders are far more likely to have comorbid general medical conditions and to die on average 10 to 20 years younger than those without mental disorders both due to these medical disorders and suicide. They are more likely to be admitted to inpatient and emergency medical units, and the costs of their total healthcare are two to three times higher than those without mental health conditions, according to the Milliman report. More days of work loss and work impairment are caused by mental illness than many other chronic conditions such as diabetes, asthma, and arthritis. This should not surprise us, knowing as we do the high prevalence of mental illness. Additionally, these illnesses dominate the causes of disability among people in their 20s and 30s, when they are entering the workforce or have not yet become established in their careers. Below are local statistics from various researches done among the Zimbabwean population. Employers have long played an important role in the development of our healthcare system. Employers are not only the biggest purchasers of private healthcare benefits i.e. medical insurance or aids; they design and solicit benefit models. I am advocating that employers put a demand for the revamping of and provision of comprehensive mental health benefits for their employees. It is to their benefit. Furthermore, business leaders must embrace the four key principles for moving toward developing a work environment at their individual companies and organisations that promote and support better mental health: This area might be a new area for most businesses, but there is local expertise to assist in this area. One among the few who can help with mental health at the workplace programmes is Highlands Halfway House.