Zvamaida Murwira Senior Reporter At least 34 people died this year after they were attacked by animals across the country, while 88 dangerous animals were killed as part of efforts by authorities to contain human-animal conflict in communities. Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority spokesperson Mr Tinashe Farawo said in an interview that of the 34 people who died, 21 were attacked by crocodiles, while others died at the hands of lions, elephants and buffaloes. “We are worried as parks authorities about these deaths of humans,” he said. “What is more worrying is that of the 34 people, 21 were attacked by crocodiles, which all things being equal, can be outpaced by humans. The attack by crocodiles mean that people are having contact with water bodies and crocodiles are stronger in water. We continue to educate communities and conduct awareness campaigns as a mitigatory measure. “We are also appealing for assistance from development partners to erect perimeter fences that demarcate people from animals.” Mr Farawo said they received 323 reports of the presence of dangerous animals and were able to respond to 29 cases, an indication that they were managing to be responsive despite meagre resources. “In our responses, we either capture the animals and translocate them to other areas or eliminate those that are dangerous,” he said. “We have managed to eliminate 88 animals this year alone. They include lions and elephants.” Turning to poaching, Mr Farawo said 540 people were arrested for the offence across the country this year. He said animals vulnerable to poaching include elephants and rhinos. “For those arrested, 50 of them were foreigners while the rest were locals,” said Mr Farawo. “Most of them have been convicted and jailed and sentenced to the mandatory nine-year jail sentence. “We are quite happy with the way the Judiciary have worked with us to fight poaching as they have expeditiously dealt with the cases. This is consistent with our zero tolerance policy on poaching. We have had 12 incidents of gunfire exchanges with poachers and 10 people have died in the process. Eight of the 10 were locals, while two were foreigners. “We have managed to recover 23 riffles because most of these poachers would be armed and we have recovered 60 pieces of ivory. “Our message to would-be poachers is that national parks are a no-go areas for mischief makers, but for those who want to do site viewing and other lawful activities.” Mr Farawo paid tribute to the support the authority was getting from President Emmerson Mnangagwa, particularly in fighting poaching. “We are getting support from the highest office in the land and we feel indebted to him,” he said. “We were also humbled by the fact that our offices was one of the places he paid a visit to soon after he assumed office.”