Yeukai Karengezeka-Chisepo Arts Correspondent Television viewers are spoilt for choice this festive season. The new free to air 24-hour edutainment channel called Lifewalk TV was launched on Wednesday. The channel offers variety of programmes to different audiences. It targets a dynamic, high-growth, loyal audience who love sports, entertainment, Christianity and education. It is accessible on various platforms that include Dstv, Phillibao, Wiztech among others with settings symbol rate 26.657msps, polarisation vertical, modulation QPSK FEC2/3, intelsat 20 and transponderEF29K. In an interview, the Lifewalk TV head of production Panashe Makufa said the new channel is meant to make social transformation more visible in Africa. “The mission of this innovative, life-changing network is to provide intelligent programming that is informative, educational, entertaining, inspiring, and empowering for its Zimbabwean audience,” said Mufuka. Lifewalk TV original programming is also meant to bring to the limelight marginalised groups in the society. “We are committed to engage a wide range of community perspectives, especially those groups that have historically been marginalised. We would like to build a sense of community and encourage communication across barriers of race, culture, physical ability, language, class, gender, age, sexual orientation, and political affiliation,” he said. Makufa said the channel will also be available online. “Our station is also available online, an option which is favourable to many people because of its flexibility. Most people these days spend most of their time on the internet. We hope that people will enjoy all the programmes that we have lined up for them,” he said. The channel run by Lifewalk Foundation is a non-governmental and non-profit making organisation that was established in January 2017 by youths from Zimbabwe. Life Foundation is working to promote social transformation in Africa and make it more visible in this cyber era we are living in.