Jonathan Mashingaidze Sports Reporter— IT keeps getting worse for embattled Jonathan Mashingaidze, with the former ZIFA chief executive being accused of abusing a bailout package which had been availed to the association to avert a FIFA ban from the 2018 World Cup for failing to pay Brazilian coach Valinhos. Mashingaidze could have more than one case to answer for after it emerged yesterday that the administrator who had a long spell at ZIFA could not account for $65 000 meant to pay ex-Warriors coach Valinhos. The Brazilian then dragged ZIFA to FIFA who gave the association ultimatums to settle the debt or risk expulsion from the draw for the 2018 World Cup qualifiers. It is alleged that as the ZIFA situation became desperate and the FIFA ban was looming, the Premier Soccer League advanced $67 000 to the association which was drawn from the mother body’s share of levies of top-flight matches. But as has become common knowledge, ZIFA did not settle the Valinhos debt on time and FIFA expelled Zimbabwe from the World Cup qualifiers. Zimbabwe’s expulsion from the 2018 World Cup dealt a huge blow to a generation of players who include current skipper Knowledge Musona, Khama Billiat, Costa Nhamoinesu, Willard Katsande and Tendai Ndoro who might be past their prime by the time the qualifiers for the 2022 global showcase in Qatar start. The former ZIFA chief executive is also in the eye of a storm following allegations that he abused another $54 000 received from Prophet Walter Magaya to help the national Under-20 team on their trip to South Africa. Mashingaidze, who was this week banned from football activities, is being accused by his former employers of theft and fraud involving over $700 000. During his tenure at ZIFA, Mashingaidze reportedly failed to proffer an explanation on the whereabouts of the $65 000 released by the PSL when ZIFA made a special appeal for the money in the hope of averting the FIFA ban two years ago. The salary arrears to Valinhos were later paid by the Government after then Minister of Sport and Recreation Makhosini Hlongwane stepped in to help solve the crisis, but it was already too late to convince the world soccer governing body to overturn their decision. ZIFA ignored repeated warnings from the Brazilian’s lawyers and were subsequently hounded out of the World Cup qualifiers when the preliminary round was conducted in March 2015. The panicking association then turned to the PSL for the remittance of outstanding levies from the gates and player registrations and the league obliged out of the need to save the situation. A PSL official yesterday confirmed the money was released to ZIFA following a request made to them. “Actually the PSL did not give ZIFA money as a donation, but they surrendered the remittances from the gates as well as player registration and licensing outstanding from the previous year. So it was money due to them. It was nothing new for them to ask for the remittances. They usually make those requests, especially when the national teams are travelling and if there is any outstanding monies it is just forwarded as and when requested,” said the official. Despite the funds being availed, it remains a mystery why it was not immediately forwarded to Valinhos, and ZIFA — who are instituting litigation against Mashingaidze — point to serious dereliction of duty by their former chief executive. The current ZIFA administration have questioned the rationale behind their former CEO’s decision to write a desperate letter to Valinhos lawyers without having first paid funds obtained from PSL coffers. “The Zimbabwe Football Association hereby requests your esteemed office and person to facilitate an engagement between your client Mr Jose Claudinei Georgini (Valinhos) and the Zimbabwe Football Association over the outstanding salary of $67 000. “We are committed to start servicing the debt upon formalisation of the re-engagement as from this month. “We have also instructed our lawyers to engage you as from tomorrow 17th March 2015, so that we agree to a credible payment proposal, whose initial down payment should be made inside this month. We also request for banking details of your client to enable the association to process payments once the engagement has been formalised. “Our association has since been suspended from the 2018 FIFA World Cup – Russia qualifiers over the outstanding salary for Jose Claudinei Georgini. We have since engaged the FIFA disciplinary committee who have said that a review of our suspension would only be considered once the association and your client have struck a position,’’ wrote Mashingaidze. The letter was also copied to FIFA development officer for Eastern and Southern Africa Ashford Mamelodi, Valinhos, and Rodriguez. But Valinhos’ debt, which had ballooned to $81 000 because of interests, was only settled by Government seven months later. The former chief executive is also accused of receiving $54 000 from Magaya for the Under-20 team which was going to South Africa. The money was handed out during a church service at the PHD Ministries in Waterfalls but not all of it found its way to the team. Mashingaidze on his part claims that it is ZIFA who actually owe him $80 000 in outstanding salaries. But as the saga rages on, ZIFA this week indicated they will step up their act in their bid to recover the money, including the $700 000 which the former head of secretariat has failed to account for in 2015 following an audit conducted by Baker Tilly Gwatidzo Chartered Accountants. The association also contend that Mashingaidze has to answer for the fraudulent activities that marred his tenure as head of secretariat leading to ballooning debts of over $6m. Mashingaidze yesterday said he has never received official communication from ZIFA and that his legal team was preparing a response to the allegations.