Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter BLESSING “Bullet” Majarira was yesterday revelling in being crowned the ZIFA Northern Region Division One League’s 2017 Player of the Year at an awards ceremony in Harare on Wednesday night. Majarira was rewarded for inspiring his club Herentals into the Premier Soccer League. For his efforts, the striker who was part of the Warriors’ COSAFA Castle Cup winning side in South Africa in July, drove away with a Toyota Vitz. The striker had a memorable night at the event as he also walked away with the league’s Golden Boot award having banged in 18 goals. Majarira believes he could have taken his goal tally to at least 20 had he not missed two weeks of Division One action because of national team commitments. “I am very happy to finally win the big award after missing it in the past two years and it is my pleasure to stand before you. I thank my coaches, teammates and all those who supported me throughout the season,’’ Majarira said. But after finishing a runner-up to Black Rhinos goalkeeper Herbert Rusawo last year and having also come close before being eclipsed by Ngezi Platinum Stars’ Evans Katema, it was Majarira’s hour on Wednesday night. Majarira however, did not get easy this season. The striker got a good run for his money from ageless Golden Valley midfielder Mernard Mupera who was the first runner-up while the consistent Simbarashe Domingo of Ngezi Platinum Stars U-19 was the second runner-up. The annual awards ceremony saw Herentals dominating the proceedings as their head coach Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva was crowned Coach of the Year while club director Innocent Benza walked away with the Oldest Player of the Season. Northern Region secretary-general, Sweeney Mushonga, said the awards are a good motivator for the players as they always want to improve the level of competition. “This year we improved on the categories by including the Oldest Player of the Season,’’ Mushonga said. At the same wards night, Zimpapers publications dominated the media accolades with Percival Sizara of H-Metro winning Reporter of the Year while The Herald’s Takudzwa Chitsiga was the first runner-up and photojournalist Tawanda Bote third. Northern Region Soccer Stars awards Awards: Coach of the Year: Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva (Herentals) Soccer Star of the Year: Blessing Majarira (Herentals) First Runner-Up: Mernard Mupera (Golden Valley) Second Runner-Up: Simbarashe Domingo (Ngezi Platinum Stars U-19) Oldest Player of the Season: Innocent Benza Player of the Year finalists: Denzel Chimwemwe (Herentals), Evans Katema (Mushowani Stars), Ali Kasembe, Innocent Chiwaridzo (Karoi United), Edgar Chigiji, Sunny Savare (Banket United), Jonathan Zvaita (Mufakose United), Blessing Chabvutagondo (Blue Swallows).