SENIOR Major golf winner Mark McNulty carded a final round of 67, five under par, to take second place on the European Senior Tour, MCB Tour Championship at the Constance Belle Mare Pladge, Post de Flaoq in Mauritius on Sunday. McNulty an Irish-Zimbabwean professional golfer recorded his second runner-up finish on the Senior Tour this season and pocketed €45 657. The tournament was won by Thailand’s Thaworn Wiratchant who carded a final round of 62, ten under par, for a 23 under par total. The 50-year-old, in his first year on the Senior Tour, started the day in a share of the 36-hole lead with Australia’s Peter Fowler, but raced clear after carding six birdies on the front nine. He then made consecutive birdies on the 13th and 14th holes, before another gain on the 17th. The two-time Asian Tour Number One then eagled the last to finish eight strokes ahead of McNulty. “I’m so happy to win,” said Wiratchant. “To win on my first year in the Senior Tour is fantastic, there are so many good players here. My tee shots were great all week that really helped me win here. I felt really comfortable on this golf course, it reminded me of playing in Thailand.” Wiratchant’s final score of 23 under par is the lowest ever at the MCB Tour Championship, and his final round 62 is also the lowest carded at this event, matched by Sweden’s Jarmo Sandelin earlier in the round. The Thai carded 24 birdies and an eagle during his rounds of 66-65-62. Senior Major winner McNulty carded a final round of 67, five under par, to take solo second place, his second runner-up finish on the Senior Tour this season. Peter Fowler and Miguel Angel Martín shared third place on 11 under par, one stroke ahead of Clark Dennis and Esteban Toledo in fifth place. At the prize-giving ceremony, Dennis was awarded the John Jacobs Trophy for finishing at the top of the Senior Tour Order of Merit. The American recorded his seventh top five finish in just 14 starts during his rookie year on the Senior Tour – he will also receive the 2017 Rookie of the Year Award. The European Senior Tour is a professional tour, for male golfers aged 50 and over, run by the PGA European Tour. Until 2009 it was known as the European Seniors Tour. Meanwhile, Scott Vincent was the only local player to make the cut at the Joburg Open in South Africa at the weekend when he finished on position 32. Vincent was on overall eight-under after the four rounds which he scored 71, 68, 71 and 69 for a total 279. The former Virginia Tech student was tied with 11other players who also pocketed R125 400. India’s Shubhankar Sharma was crowned winner of the tournament co-sanctioned by the Sunshine Tour, the European Tour and Asian Tour. He carded a final-round three-under-par 69 on the Firethorn course at Randpark Golf Club as the players returned to complete the final round which was postponed after Sunday’s thunderstorms, forcing the tournament to spill into yesterday. – Sport Reporter/European Tour.com.