Gresham Nyaude Yeukai Karengezeka-Chisepo Arts Correspondent Contemporary visual artist, Gresham Nyaude is set to represent Zimbabwe at the forthcoming global event the fourth Triennial of the New Museum in New York to be curated by Gary Carrion Murayari and Alex Gartenfeld. The exhibition that consists of 30 young leading artists aged between 25 and 35 drawn from 19 countries around the world will run under the theme “Songs of Sabotage” in February. According to a statement released by the New Museum, the exhibition has an array of emerging artists doing great work. “The exhibition explores interventions into cities, infrastructures, and the of everyday life, bringing objects that could potentially create shared, or common, experiences and introduces “leading young artists from emerging art centres and networks around the world.” “We felt it was important and particularly timely to raise the question of how individuals and collectives around the world might effectively address the connection of images and culture to forces that structure our society,” Carrion-Murayari said. In an interview with elated Nyaude he said it is a great honour to be representing the nation at such a prestigious international event. “I was surprised and at the same time happy when I received a letter that I have been selected to represent Zimbabwe. It gives me joy to see how my artwork is being appreciated across the globe. I also give credit to First Floor gallery who assist me to get my work recognised. I am looking forward to having a great experience. The year 2018 is quite promising for me,” he said. He described 2017 at his best year in his career. “I have been on the radar since the beginning of the year. I had a number of exhibitions that I ran and my work was received well on the market,” he said. He was among the five local visual artists under the First Floor Gallery that exhibited at the FNB Johannesburg Art Fair held in Johannesburg in September that had only 14 participating countries across Africa,Europe and United States. In July, Nyaude had the opportunity to represent Zimbabwe at an exhibition called “Another Antipodes” held in Perth, Australia.