Sports Reporter THE proposed Christmas Challenge Cup pitting Zimbabwe and northern neighbours Zambia scheduled for the National Sports Stadium this Saturday has been called off under unclear circumstances. The match, which initially had been dubbed President’s Cup and meant to commemorate the ascendancy of President Emmerson Mnangagwa before it was turned into a Christmas celebration, suffered a stillbirth just a day after Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambwa had picked his strongest squad of local players to begin preparations. Chidzambwa had named a 24-man side that was expected to start trooping into camp tomorrow at Yadah Complex, but the veteran coach and his players will now have to continue with their holidays after ZIFA announced in a statement that the tie had been called off. In their statement, ZIFA said the potentially exciting encounter between the two perennial rivals had been called off because of the non-availability of the National Sports Stadium which the association’s spokesperson Xolisani Gwesela said had been booked for a wedding on the same day. “The Zimbabwe Football Association regrets to inform all football stakeholders that the proposed Christmas Challenge Cup between the senior teams of Zimbabwe and Zambia has been cancelled due to the non-availability of the National Sports Stadium on 23 December. The match between the legends of South African football and their counterparts from Zimbabwe which was supposed to serve as pre-match entertainment has also been called-off. “The association was advised that the facility is booked for a wedding on the same date, therefore, the friendly match cannot go ahead. ZIFA is concerned by the prioritising of non-sporting events ahead of football matches when it comes to access to the National Sports Stadium. ZIFA unreservedly apologises to all stakeholders for all inconveniences caused,” said Gwesela. The association had earlier this week also indicated that the Christmas Challenge Cup would now be a permanent feature on the local calendar. Chidzambwa had hoped to use the Christmas Challenge Cup to assess some of the promising local players for possible recruitment to the African Cup of Nations squad to face Congo Brazzaville when the qualifiers resume next year. But the match was going to benefit Zambia more as they prepare for next year’s CHAN tournament. Chipolopolo are currently in camp for the last leg of their preparations for the tournament that runs from January 12 to February 14, 2018 in Morocco. Zambia are in Group B alongside Namibia, Uganda and Cote d’Ivoire. They will tackle the Cranes on January 14 in their opening match and their coach Wedson Nyirenda who gave rave reviews of the Warriors’ COSAFA Castle Cup winning squad, is not to leaving anything to chance in the build-up to the tournament. Chidzambwa on his part had sought to give them a good run for their money by calling a strong squad that had the likes of Soccer Star of the Year Rodwell Chinyengetere, Ocean Mushure, Ali Sadiki, Clemence Matawu, Qadr Amini, Liberty Chakaroma, Dominic Chungwa and Elvis Chipezeze. The coach had also retained the bulk of the squad that he had hoped to take to the CECAFA tournament in Kenya where Zimbabwe had been billed to participate as a guest nation before ZIFA withdrew the Warriors citing security reasons. ZIFA had also planned a curtain raiser match that would feature a high profile clash between Zimbabwe legends against their South Africa counterparts on Saturday. Former Warriors coach Rahman Gumbo had been given the reins to lead the legends with the assistance of David Mandigora and Bekithemba Ndlovu, but the match has since been shelved.