Minister Moyo Innocent Ruwende Senior Reporter Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister July Moyo will today meet local authorities and traditional leaders to outline policy direction aimed at improving service delivery. It is highly expected that Minister Moyo will give councils service delivery targets. Local Government, Public Works and National Housing permanent secretary Mr George Magosvongwe yesterday confirmed the meeting which will take place in Harare, saying the sector should hit the ground running. “The minister will be meeting them for the first time, hence they will be introductions and the minister will outline the general policy direction which is in line with the aspirations of the people. We are hitting the ground running and we expect results in the short-term,” he said. Harare mayor councillor Bernard Manyenyeni said he was hoping to use the platform to discuss the succession of the city’s town clerk. “There are a number of issues we want to discuss with the new minister, chief among them is that we need the executive level of council to be finalised. Succession has taken over 40 months. The minister’s view on devolution will be guiding,” he said. Kadoma mayor Muchineripi Chinyanganya said he expected Minister Moyo to outline how his ministry was going to deal with land barons. “His predecessors paid lip service to the issue,” he said. “They continue wreaking havoc in local authorities. He needs to support the local authorities get their share of the five percent enshrined in the Constitution. “The 2013 debt write off continues to hurt local authorities. We want him to address that. (Former) Minister Kasukuwere promised to act on that and nothing materialised. Local authorities need recapitalisation. Road construction equipment is needed. He should address that.” Mr Chinyanganya said water and sewer infrastructure was also obsolete. Mutare mayor Tatenda Nhamarare implored Government to return vehicle licensing to local authorities. “We expect the new minister to assist local authorities with our share of five percent as enshrined in the Constitution, improved conditions on procurement as the current status is hampering progress and lastly issues of vehicle licensing should be returned back to the local authorities,” he said.