TO THE FUTURE . . . Board of trustees members Prosper Chibaya (front) and Charles Manyuchi congratulate the eight boxers who have been roped into the Charles Manyuchi Sports Academy during yesterday’s launch in Harare. — Picture by Kudakwashe Hunda. Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter TOP Zimbabwean boxer Charles Manyuchi had one of his dreams fulfilled yesterday as the Charles Manyuchi Sports Academy was launched in Harare. The multi-purpose academy based in Chivhu will cater for several sport codes including boxing, five-a-side soccer, volleyball, beach volleyball, squash, basketball and tennis with focus being on the development of athletes from grassroots. The academy will be run by a board of trustees made up of Manyuchi, Prosper Chibaya, Prosper Muzamhindo, Sheron Marombedze, Loveness Hlohla, Luckson Mutara, who is the chief executive for Chikomba Rural District Council and the council’s chairman Pardon Mudzimu. Speaking to The Herald on the sidelines of the launch yesterday Manyuchi said after facing some challenges as an upcoming boxer, it was always his dream to be able to assist other aspiring athletes. “When I was growing up there were no academies especially for boxing. But when I started competing outside the country I realised they have these academies and their athletes are good because they have support. They start their development programmes at a young age compared to us. “So for me as someone who grew up facing challenges I thought of supporting others to achieve their dreams. I am very happy because this is my dream. I want to see others making it in sport. I would want them to even do better than me and if they make it the academy will grow. We need to support each other,” said Manyuchi. Yesterday’s launch saw eight boxers Evans Husavihwevhu, Hassan Milanzi, Future Maliya, Aliyah Phiri, Mellisa Matanhire, Caroline Dube, Brandon Denes and Tinashe Majoni signing contracts as the first batch of athletes to be enrolled by the academy. The academy is being built on a 4,5 hectare piece of land that was donated to him by Chikomba Rural District Council. The other brains behind the project are Chibaya and Hlohla, who are coming from a business background. Zimbabwe National Boxing Control Board representative Patrick Mkondiwa said they are proud to see Manyuchi giving back to society. “Although this academy is multi-disciplinary and will cater for a variety of sports, it is heartening for us as a boxing organisation that boxing is part of this. And the moving spirit in its creation is one of our own sons Charles Manyuchi, currently the flagship of our professional boxing in the country. “Despite the fact that Charles is based in Zambia due to circumstances beyond our power, he has not forgotten his roots. We have no doubt that this deed will attract attention to professional boxing as it shows that boxing is changing the life of ordinary people,” said Mkondiwa. Zimbabwe Boxing Federation president, Jim Mpalale, who was the guest of honour at the function also hailed Manyuchi for his efforts and said there is need for all stakeholders to come to support the noble cause. “The job at hand can never be a solo project, but will require an all stakeholders approach, our parent Ministry of Sport (Arts and Recreation), the SRC will as always assist this project. “Local authorities are leading the way, national sports federations will all come in handy and the local community will contribute by giving morale support to the project and a lot more support,” Mpalale said. The launch was also graced by Zimbabwe Netball Association president Leticia Chipandu and Thomas Kambuyi from the Boxing Control Board.