Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S upcoming squash player Ryan Gwidzima is making his presence felt at the ongoing US Junior Open Squash Championships at Yale University, New Haven in Connecticut where he made it to the round of 32 in the boys Under-13 main draw over the weekend. Gwidzima put up a brilliant performance to win his first match against Milo Friedman 3-0 before beating Leo Merkel by the same score line. However, he lost 2-3 to Juan Jose Torres in the third match, which was the round of 32. He then moved to play in the second consolation draw where he won his first game 3-1 against Mike Knapp and was scheduled to play in the quarter-finals last night. His father, Langton Gwidzima is impressed with the way his son has progressed so far at the championships. “I was expecting him to do something like that because he started to play squash from a very small age and you could see the work he put in the game that he was playing hard. So I am happy for the results. And I was expecting him to do something like that. The best he could do now is be number 17,” said Langton. The 12-year-old was invited to the championships by US Junior Open Squash Championships chief executive, Kelvin Klipstein through some Zimbabweans based in the United States and he is making his maiden appearance. Langton said with such performance from Ryan he can only expect a bright future for his son if carries on with such determination. “He got an invitation from the squash association there, from the CEO of the United States Junior Squash. I think for him it’s a big opportunity, to be playing at such high level with top players in the world that shows he has got a good foundation. If he carries on with his squash he will go far,” said Langton The young Gwidzima left for the United States last Wednesday accompanied by Trevor Williams, who is his coach for the tournament which ends today. The young Gwidzima won the Zimbabwe Squash Academy’s eighth anniversary celebrations tournament boys Under-14 section a few weeks ago and his participation in the US Junior Open is a boost for the promising junior squash player. He was also at the South African Inter-Provincial Championships between June and July where he also did well, raising the country’s flag high.