Dr Scarifice Chirisa Mental Health Matters I have helped many drug addiction patients, most of the patients come to the rehab centre, with a lot of scepticism and distorted thoughts of what will happen to them. Most think they will be in a prison-like facility and subjected to inhumane treatment.  The model that is most common in addiction treatment centres is where psychiatrists: who are doctors that specialise in the diagnosis and treatment of psychiatric disorders are the team leaders of a team of medical practitioners, among them being: Psychiatrists play a major role during detoxification, the first phase of addiction treatment when addicts are safely weaned off dangerous substances. Because addiction can affect the brain’s neurochemistry, the medical expertise of psychiatrists is necessary as poor management at this point can lead to disaster. When substance abuse co-occurs with another psychiatric disorder normally termed dual diagnosis, such as depression, anxiety, or Bipolar Disorder, treatment generally involves medication and behavioural therapy techniques, along with psychiatric consultation. Psychologists are key as they explore the hidden psychological schemas that drive the addiction habit. The endeavour is to replace poor coping mechanisms with more positive and sustainable ones. Occupational therapists’ role is to bring back the individual to functionality and contribute positively to the community. They do this by retraining via a series of specifically designed tasks. Social workers are of great importance as they help in reintegrating patients back into the society. This sounds easy, but it is a huge task and if not done well leads to the revolving door scenario. The psychiatric nurse is key as the care cadre; they are the glue that makes all the specialised personal efforts work. Psychiatrists who treat drug or alcohol addiction will look into the patient’s history and when the early signs of trouble began to appear. Addiction psychiatrists work with patients to determine the reasons for the development of their drug or alcohol addiction. If there is a need, they can prescribe medication to control withdrawal symptoms and treat underlying or co-existing psychiatric disorders. Most patients that need rehabilitation at first resent admission into a residential/inpatient care. This is important as it separates the addicted person from the environment that allowed him or her to use drugs, and teaches new habits or skills for sober living. A person goes away to a specialised facility for a period of weeks to months, depending on the extent of the problem and the rate of improvement. People always ask if drug rehabilitation will solve the problem as in a cure to the challenge. It is crucial to have the understanding that some will do well, some will not do well. What is key is that rehabilitation is the best environment to give the best chance if an addiction patient is to recover. However, residential drug abuse treatment programmes are expensive, usually costing thousands of dollars and are not covered by medical insurance. Highlands Halfway House ( HHH) has grown to become a centre of excellence offering these services in Zimbabwe.