There are times when your child can come to you and tell you that she is so much afraid of her teacher. The first thing you might think is that she does not want to go to school. You have never sat down to talk about it and allow her to explain why she is so much afraid of the teacher. She will be hoping that as a parent you are intelligent enough to understand what she is saying. When a relative comes to take your children for a holiday for the second time and you see them refusing to go. Some of you continue forcing them every time to go there because of a relationship that you are trying to maintain. You do not mind sacrificing your children in the process of maintaining your relationship. If someone comes to take your child and you see her screaming; simply that act of withdrawal should give you a clue. Why should your children be coming from holiday with wounds all over their bodies every time? What sort of an environment is that? Children should be trained, you have to talk to them. Spend time with your children and train them how to respond when something like that happens. Train your children places that should never be touched by anybody. If someone mistakenly touches them on such places he has to know that they are different from the rest of the children. Even if they are playing together as kids they have to know that they will never go to such places. If any of them makes a mistake of doing that there is a report that has to come straight away. Abuse is an improper way of using anything; an improper way of using any person or any instrument. If you are not using something properly that is abuse. Any person who does not know how to use something, if he is going to continue using it he is most likely going to abuse it. He might abuse it intentionally or ignorantly but still abuse is abuse. What normally stops you from abusing anything is when you have gone through its manual. You can protect yourself from abuse by doing the best you can to stay away from any person who is not interested in your manual. You should not expose yourself to a person who does not want to understand you and acknowledge your proper use. If you join yourself to such a person you will be exposing yourself to abuse. That person is going to abuse you ignorantly or intentionally. God created you for a specific purpose and that purpose has to be known by the person that stays with you. You can be going through some form of abuse without knowing that it is abuse. You can also abuse somebody without even knowing that you are abusing them. Abuse — I would want to refer to it as a spirit because I have realised that it is really a force. There are parents who just feel like beating up their children even without being offended. It is because the parent grew up in an environment where he would be beaten up without concrete reason and he then brought the revenge on his own children. It becomes an ongoing chain, a cycle of abuse. Most abusers do not even realise that they are such. You can have ten children calling you an abuser and you will not even believe them, including the maids. They can tell you that you are such an abusive person and you will still deny it. You can marry and divorce several times until one spouse tells you that you are such an abusive husband and you will still deny it, you can even start abusing her for saying that. If the nature of abuse is growing inside of you, you have to find reasons why you do the things you do every time. You defend yourself every moment, every decision that you take you support it no matter how wrong it is. That character can grow inside of you and you become a weapon that endangers other people’s lives and you are not even aware of it. You can be an abusive husband and then you justify doing that. You always feel like every person around you is doing it the wrong way; every person around you has to correct something before you can correct your behaviour. You always justify doing something as a response to what other people have done. If you are abusive you might not even feel like this message is communicating with you and yet so many people out there are crying just because of you. The abuser might not know that he is abusing and the abused might not know again that she is being abused. You can be made to enjoy the abuse through messages you hear telling and comforting you that it is part of the persecution every believer has to go through. You are being tortured for no reason and you look at the lives of how Paul and Peter were persecuted and you feel like that is what you are going through. They were suffering for the sake of the gospel, but you are not an evangelist, you do not even have a sermon to preach. Most of what you are facing is not even persecution, but it is abuse that you have to resist. Abuse has to be resisted. You can have the abusive nature inside of you, but it manifests in different forms. If you are that kind of person who always threaten to commit suicide and you want your husband to continue doing something for you because he feels like if he does not do that you will kill yourself, you become an abusive wife. You are causing somebody to do something as a result of fear, he fears that if he does not do something you will kill yourself. You will be tampering with and abusing your husband’s feelings and emotions. If you keep on threatening to kill yourself it is an abusive behaviour. Everything people end up doing for you they fear that you will kill yourself. It is an abuse to other people’s emotions. If we have to be careful every time we approach you otherwise you will kill yourself, then you need to be delivered from that spirit of abuse. If you always keep knives, ropes and poison everywhere, what sort of a life is that? You want to manipulate somebody into doing something that is out of his will; that is actually a spirit of witchcraft. Some men have married their wives before doing the proper investigations. Your wife, even before marrying her, she had abusive tendencies that you did not observe. For you to know the spirit of abuse in a person you do not have to wait until you become the victim. Just look at other things around the person and you will pick the abuse.