Herald Reporter Operation Restore Legacy that saw the resignation of former President Robert Mugabe has made significant progress in its effort to maintain peace and order in the country since its launch on November 15 this year. In a joint statement on Friday last week, Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) and Security Services (SS) assured the nation that their operations and programmes were people-oriented in accordance with the vision of President Emmerson Mnangagwa. “The Zimbabwe Defence Forces and other Security services of Zimbabwe wish to inform the nation that they are encouraged by the cooperation they are getting from members of the public in their effort to maintain law and order throughout the country,” read the statement signed by police Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba and ZDF director of public relations Colonel Owen Mugwisi. The security forces noted a disturbing trend in the reporting of criminal and other cases by members of the public that are not following proper channels. “Reports are wrongly directed to officials for reasons that include (1) kinship advantage, (2) personal relationship or friendship and (3) direct or indirect link between the victim and the senior public official to whom the report is conveniently made,” said the security forces. They said when cases were reported in the manner cited, procedures of recording, investigating and managing such cases tend to get compromised. This, they said, inevitably risked delay in investigation of cases or resolution. Many such cases, said the security forces, might be left unresolved, denying justice. “The Zimbabwe Defence Forces and Security Services would wish to remind members of the public that it is in the interest of timely justice delivery to report all cases to the nearest police station where records of cases are opened, investigations initiated and management of such reported cases pursued,” they said. In terms of the Section 219 of the Constitution, it is the responsibility of the police to detect, investigate and prevent crime.