Gen Phillip Valerio Sibanda zna Commander Good morning Zimbabwe! The Defence and Security Service come before you, once again, to pronounce the end of “Operation Restore Legacy”. “Operation Restore Legacy” was launched on 13 November 2017 and its main objective was to remove criminals that had surrounded the President, resulting in anxiety and despondency amongst our people. While some of the individuals have been accounted for, others skipped the country. This notwithstanding, the objectives of the operation have to a large extent been achieved. Besides the above-mentioned objective, “Operation Restore Legacy” has had wider implications on the political, economic and social activities of our people. In this regard, a new political dispensation has been ushered in to take Zimbabwe into its rightful place within the Sadc and the world at large. The nation will recall that before the statement that was issued by the Commander Zimbabwe Defence Forces, General Constantino Guveya Dominic Nyikadzino Chiwenga on 13 November 2017, many political, economic and security events had taken place all of which had the effect of causing anxiety and despondency among the generality of our people, as well as destabilising the defence and security services of our country. The General’s statement was followed by a series of political events, the highlights of which were the resignation of the former President, Cde R. G. Mugabe, from the seat of power; followed by the inauguration of his Excellency, President Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa, as the Second Executive President and Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces since the country’s independence in 1980. Since then, the appointment of a new Cabinet on 30 November 2017, and the holding of the Extraordinary Congress of the ruling Zanu-PF Party and many other events are now history which we have all been witnesses to. As a result of these political developments, normalcy has returned to our country. It is for this reason that as your Defence and Security Services we announce the end of “Operation Restore Legacy” today, the 18th of December 2017. We want to take this opportunity to thank all Zimbabweans for their support, patience and understanding during the five weeks of “Operation Restore Legacy”. We understand and regret the inconvenience and anxiety that this operation might have caused in certain circles of our nation, but as most of our people would agree, this was all for the good of our nation. We would also like to take this opportunity to thank members of the various Security Services who participated in the operation for their diligence, courteousness when dealing with the public and commitment to duty. We also want to make special mention to the veterans of our liberation struggle and former detainees and war collaborators for their mobilisation efforts which resulted in the massive turnout by Zimbabweans for the solidarity march on 19 November 2017. This was historic and will be remembered for generations to come. As “Operation Restore Legacy” comes to an end, it is our hope as your Defence and Security Services that our people will remain united, shun corruption, be law-abiding and focus on working hard for the development of our country. In this regard, we are all reminded by what the President said in his inaugural speech at the National Sports Stadium on 24 November 2017 and I quote, “As we focus on recovering our economy, we must shed misbehaviours and acts of indiscipline which have characterised the past, acts of corruption must stop forthwith. “Where these occur, swift justice must be served to show each and all that crime and other acts of economic sabotage can only guarantee ruin to perpetrators.” Furthermore, your Defence and Security Services would like to remind all Zimbabweans to remain vigilant and to report any suspicious objects and individuals to law enforcement agents. This is because some of the members of the G40 cabal that had surrounded the former Head of State are now badmouthing the country from foreign lands where their intentions to harm the peace and tranquillity that exists in our country have been pronounced. It is therefore the duty of every Zimbabwean to ensure that these malcontents and saboteurs and others of like mind are not allowed to succeed. Today as the Defence Forces hand over all normal day-to-day policing duties to the Zimbabwe Republic Police, we urge all our citizens to allow for a smooth transition. Members of the public are urged to respect, support and co-operate with the police as they execute their constitutional mandate. On the other hand, the Zimbabwe Republic Police are expected to fully take over their responsibilities and perform according to their constitutional mandate and Client Service Chatter. As I conclude my statement which I make on behalf of the Defence and Security Services, I want to once again thank all our citizens and salute you for your resilience which had gotten us to where we are today as a nation despite the many challenges that have confronted us it is our belief that with clearer and better coordinated plans for the resuscitation of our economy, coupled with the existence of peace and political stability, our combined efforts to turn around our economy will pay dividends in the very near future. Further, as we prepare for the elections in 2018, it is our wish that the campaigning and the voting itself on the day, takes place in an environment of peace and tranquillity. And here again I want to quote the President where he said in his closing remarks to the zanu-pf Extra Ordinary Congress on 15 December 2017, “I would also urge our members to remain peaceful before and after elections. We do not condone any acts of violence.” Let us all work for a peaceful and prosperous Zimbabwe. Thank you Zimbabwe; and we wish you all a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year! Press Statement by the Commander Zimbabwe National Army: Lieutenant General Phillip Valerio Sibanda: 18 December 2017