Virgil van Dijk LONDON. — Virgil van Dijk has to win trophies for Liverpool and be the English Premiership soccer club’s No. 1 centre-back for the next decade, according to former Reds defender Jamie Carragher. Van Dijk will complete a move to Liverpool on January 1 after the club agreed a £75m deal to sign the Netherlands international from Southampton. The agreed fee for Van Dijk would represent a world-record sum for a defender, topping Manchester City’s deal to sign Kyle Walker in July. Carragher believes Van Dijk must bring silverware to Anfield and says the 26-year-old must emulate former Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand, who previously held the title of the world’s most expensive defender. “I think there is a dearth of top-class centre-backs throughout world football hence why so many clubs wanted him and the transfer fee is so high,” said Carragher. “People will look at the transfer that normally strikers go for but as with any transfer fee if he performs well and does his job it will be worth it. The one centre-back when the transfer fee felt so huge at the time was 15 years ago when Rio Ferdinand went to Manchester United. But he repaid that. He was Manchester United’s top centre-back, won trophies and was there for 10 years. “That is what Van Dijk has to do, take Liverpool to trophies and be Liverpool’s No. 1 centre-back for the next decade or so.” The Reds will pay £75million for the Dutch centre-back which would be the highest fee ever paid for a defender. And Anfield chiefs have confirmed Van Dijk will arrive on January 1 and wear the No. 4 shirt. A club statement said: “Liverpool Football Club can confirm they have reached an agreement with Southampton for the transfer of Virgil van Dijk. “The Reds have agreed a deal with the south coast club, and the player himself, that will see the 26-year-old defender move to Anfield when the transfer window re-opens on January 1, 2018. The Netherlands international will be assigned squad number four, upon his arrival at Liverpool.” Liverpool wanted to sign the classy Holland international in the summer but withdrew their interest and apologised for the manner of their pursuit. The 26-year-old was left out of the Saints squad for the 5-2 Boxing Day defeat by Tottenham and has been unsettled all season. — Sky Sports    