President Trump Sheikh Abdullah Makwinja Correspondent Donald Trump’s decision to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of the illegitimate state of Israel was met with fierce condemnation from the UN and leaders around the world. The Palestinian leader describes Jerusalem as the eternal capital of the State of Palestine. The move has drawn a chorus of international criticism and condemnation from both Muslims and Christians. The status of Jerusalem has long been a sensitive issue since 1948, when Palestine was occupied by Zionist Israel. In 1980, the usurper regime of Israel passed a law declaring Jerusalem to be Israel’s “complete and united” capital, but the United Nations Security Council condemned this and passed a resolution that it would not recognise the law. Meanwhile, the indigenous Palestinians have always regarded Jerusalem, which Israel captured in 1967, as their capital and view Trump’s move as a decision to side with the usurper. The United Nations Secretary-General spoke of his “great anxiety”. The European Union expressed “serious concern”. American allies like Britain, France, Germany and Italy all declared it a mistake. The European Union’s top diplomat expressed concern about “the repercussions this may have on the prospect of peace”. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei reacted to Trump’s move on Israel by saying, “their announcement of Quds (Jerusalem) as the capital of the Occupied Palestine proves their incompetence and failure. “In regards to Palestine, they are helpless and unable to achieve their goals. Victory is for the Islamic nation. Palestine will be free, and the Palestinian people will be victorious.” Describing the United States and Israel as oppressors, Khamenei said, “The modern-day Pharaoh is represented by the US, the Zionist regime and their accomplices in the region, who seek to create wars in our region, and this is plotted by the US.” Iranian President Hassan Rouhani joined Khamenei in condemning any attempt by the United States to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. “Today, the enemies have launched a new conspiracy against the Muslims and have targeted the great goal of the liberation of the Holy Quds,” said Rouhani. “The Holy Quds belongs to Muslims and Palestinians, and it is not a place in which anyone can stand against the thoughts and feelings of the people. This is a new adventure of the ‘global arrogance’ in the region.” The Iranian president also said, “Although the Islamic Republic of Iran has responded to the call by the nations (seeking its aid) by supporting them, and wants to resolve problems through negotiation and has never agreed to changes in the borders in the region, it will not tolerate aggression against Islamic sanctities.” President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey has also said the decision would throw the region into a “ring of fire”, calling the expected change a “grave mistake”. He added that “Jerusalem is our honour, Jerusalem is our common cause, Jerusalem is our red line.” America has disregarded a UN Security Council resolution with its decision to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and move its embassy there. This US move reflects the incompetence and failure of the American government, thereby abandoning its leading role as a peace mediator. The move would put back the peace process by decades and would threaten regional and perhaps global stability. Israel is a European colonial settlement created in 1948 by a British colonial officer and now sustained by US imperialism. Jews, Christians and Muslims have lived and will continue to live in Palestine for generations after Zionism has ended up in the dustbin of history. Palestine belongs to Palestinians. Jerusalem has always been and will always remain the Palestinian capital. Sheikh Abdullah Makwinja is National Director, AHL-UL-BAYT (AS) Islamic Guidance Council of Zimbabwe.