Baleka Mbete Tendai Mugabe Senior Reporter Zanu-PF has been commended for exhibiting highest levels of political maturity by ensuring a smooth transition that ushered in a new era that saw Cde Emmerson Mnangagwa being elevated to the position of the party’s First Secretary and President. Various speakers who delivered solidarity messages during the Zanu-PF Extraordinary Congress held in Harare yesterday hailed the revolutionary party for its exemplary leadership. ANC of South Africa, which was represented by their Speaker of Parliament Cde Baleka Mbete said: “You achieved a good transition peacefully. I find no bitterness or hatred about your predecessor Cde (Robert) Mugabe. That is political maturity. As ANC we are here to say we are proud to be associated with Zanu-PF and we wish you good luck comrades.” Cde Mbete said people were expecting change from the new Zanu-PF administration, but change could not be achieved overnight. Acting secretary-general of the General Council of the United Russia, Andrey A. Turchak said: “Your Excellency Mr Mnangagwa, please accept my warmest greetings on the occasion of Extraordinary Congress of the Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front. “I am confident that the forthcoming political forum will make the most important decisions for your party and the country and will become the new stage in the way of further strengthening of democracy and all round development. “We would like to express our gratitude for your initiative to develop cooperation between our parties and ready to establish contacts in the inter-party format for the benefit of the peoples of Russia and Zimbabwe. I wish you your Excellency Mr Mnangagwa and all the delegates of the Congress successful work and to your beautiful country — well-being and prosperity.” Chinese Vice Minister of International Department Mrs Xu Lyuping hailed relations between Zanu-PF and the Communist Party of China. She said the two parties had a long tested friendship dating back to the days of Zimbabwe’s liberation struggle. Cde Coltrane Chimurenga of the December 12 Movement, based in the United States said: “We have now become one family of Pan Africanists. We should never allow anyone to take our country and our legacy. We will never recognise imperialists.” Cde Chimurenga hailed the Zimbabwe Defence Forces for executing Operation Restore Legacy in a peaceful manner. Representatives of several liberation movements also delivered solidarity messages alongside a host of local organisations such as the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association and the Chiefs Council of Zimbabwe.