Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter WITH two major youths competitions lined up for next year, the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe is not leaving anything to chance as director in charge of youth Briad Nhubu will this week take charge of their second Youth Olympics high performance camp at Northlea High School in Bulawayo. Next year will see young aspiring athletes from different sport codes taking part in the African Youth Games scheduled for Algeria in July. And it will serve as a qualifier for most of the codes for the Summer Youth Olympic Games to be staged in Buenos Aires, Argentina in October. The athletics mother-body has already picked a provisional team that is expected to take a step further in preparing for the Games this week at Northlea High School. The 14-member provisional team was expected to start trooping into camp yesterday for the week-long programme. This is the second time that they are coming together after the first meeting held at Prince Edward School in Harare, in October. And during that camp the coaches were looking at the preparation phase, general conditioning and exercising to remain in shape. Nhubu said they are looking at continuing from where they left when they last met. “Our focus is to further develop the athlete’s performance through provision of high quality training using standard facilities. We hope to upgrade them on technical, tactical and mental focus so that they are geared for high level competitions. As youth, they need constant checking to ensure that they remain in shape as they work towards their qualifying for the tough assignment ahead. “We target to check on their fitness levels and assess their progress basing on what they have been doing at their bases,” said Nhubu. Nhubu, who led this year’s team at the IAAF Youth World Championships in Kenya said the camp gives them the opportunity to address the athletes’ weaknesses as well. “This is also going to be a platform to assess their individual challenges so that we can plan ways of assisting them. We also want to work on their event performance determining factors. We expect that they have been doing endurance stuff and strength conditioning, so generally we hope that they are fairly fit. We also look forward to seeing them performing basic techniques in their specific events. “This is a good foundation that gives us ample time to embrace on necessary preparations for the Games. I am happy with this kind of support because it is a critical requirement to provide the athletes with training opportunities. It’s a fantastic stance in pursuit of long term athletes’ development which is our major goal and vision,” said Nhubu. The camp which was initially set to start on December 1 was moved to this week due to logistical challenges and ends on Saturday. Provisional Team Boys: Simbarashe Maketa (200m and 400m), Donovan Mutariswa (100m), Ronald Muchichwa (high jump), Brian Ndlovu (400m), Nicholas Schmolke (javelin), Elias Mungofa (800m). Girls: Dorothy Kavhumbura (triple jump), Mascline Watama (100m and 200m), Emmaculate Mapurisa (400m and 800m), Langathani Dube (3000m), Abigail Chaturuka (100m/200m), Nicole Chikosi (100m and 200m), Vanessa Matimbe (400m and 800m), Priviledge Chikara.