Norman Mapeza Mukudzei Chingwere Midlands Bureau A MASSIVE clear-out is expected at Premiership kings FC Platinum, with coach Norman Mapeza back at work to assemble a squad he feels can stand the heat in the Champions League. Former Soccer Star of the year finalist Brian Muzondiwa, who has enjoyed little game time at the club has been released and will be joined on the exit door by Gerald Takwara, who has joined South African Premiership side Ajax Cape Town pending medicals. Veteran forward — Takesure Chinyama — who arrived amid high expectations this year following his successful stints in Europe and having previously shone at former champions Dynamos is also free to move and resuscitate his career elsewhere. Chinyama’s stay at the champions has been compromised by the coming in of three foreign strikers who are expected to lead the line next year together with veteran Mkhokheli Dube who had a fair season. Ishmael Wadi is also likely to return to the club after a praiseworthy loan stint at Bulawayo City while former Young Warriors midfielder Tatenda Dzumbunu, who showed a lot of promise in his early days at the club when he used to line up alongside Tanzania-based playmaker Wisdom Mutasa in central midfield, is also set to be shown the exit door after being frozen out by Mapeza. Talented midfielders Ali Sadiki and Nqobizitha Masuku have largely been used as cover, but there are rumours that they feel they have the requisite talent to play regularly and are likely to leave on their own volition. FC Platinum spokesperson, Chido Chizondo, only confirmed the departure of Muzondiwa saying they have not yet finalised on other players who will be offloaded. “Brian is the only one that I can confirm who will be leaving the club this year, the other players the coaches are yet to finalise. Ideally we wanted some players to compete in the Champions League and the domestic league so we need a few more players since we are likely to be playing many games,” Chizondo said. “There are players who are here for trials and their performance will give us a picture on who will be retained and will be leaving. Other players might leave to create room for new arrivals, but like I said the coaches are yet to furnish us with the list. That some players are opting to leave in search of regular playing time, I am not aware of that and nothing like that has come to us,” said Chizondo. Despite having to compete on two fronts, Africa’s premier club competition and fighting to retain the domestic title, Mapeza will be aware of the fact that he needs to keep his players motivated by not starving them of much-needed game time.