A man walks past huge tents at Robert Mugabe Square, the venue of zanu-pf’s Extraordinary Congress, in Harare yesterday. Preparations for the congress are at an advanced stage Herald Reporter Zanu-PF provinces are geared for the revolutionary party’s Extraordinary Congress slated for Friday in Harare, whose main business is to endorse changes that came up as a result of Operation Restore Legacy that helped stop the rot caused by the G40 cabal. Provincial leaders who spoke to The Herald yesterday said they had finished accrediting delegates. The event will be held at Robert Mugabe Square and will attract nearly 6 000 delegates from the party’s 10 provinces. Zanu-PF Midlands provincial chairperson Cde Daniel Mackenzie said they were bringing 771 delegates to the Extraordinary Congress. Read more: “This number is from our 563 party districts,” he said. “The number includes Central Committee, provincial and National Consultative Assembly members. As for accreditation, we are done with six of our eight administrative districts. We are left with Gokwe North and Gokwe South, which will be done tomorrow (today).” Cde Mackenzie said the province would have an inter-district conference on Thursday, before delegates leave for Harare. Mashonaland Central Province chairperson Cde Kazembe Kazembe said: “We have about 600 delegates and accreditation of districts and provincial delegates has been done. We just have a few that missed the accreditation. “In short, everything is in place logistically and we are ready to roar.” The Extraordinary Congress will have three items on the agenda, the first one being to confirm First Secretary and President of the party, Cde Emmerson Mnangagwa. The second is to endorse President Mnangagwa as the presidential candidate for the 2018 harmonised elections, while the last item is to endorse Central Committee resolutions made on November 19. The resolutions include the recalling of former First Secretary and President Cde Robert Mugabe and confirmation of the expulsion of G40 cabal members who include ex-First Lady Grace Mugabe, Phelekezela Mphoko, Jonathan Moyo, Saviour Kasukuwere, Kudzanayi Chipanga, Mandi Chimene and Ignatius Chombo. The Central Committee meeting further resolved to improve the standing of war veterans and reinstate District Coordinating Committees which had been abolished. Matabeleland North chairperson Cde Richard Moyo said they were geared up for the Extraordinary Congress. “We are through with accreditation and we are bringing 384 delegates to Harare,” he said. “So far there are no challenges in terms of preparations.” Bulawayo chairperson Cde Callistus Ndlovu weighed in: “We have been busy with accreditation over the weekend and everything is on course. I am out office and can’t give you the exact number of delegates.” Manicaland chair Cde Mike Madiro said they had accredited 517 delegates. “We are only left with the accreditation of central committee members and 10 guests drawn from people who assist the party financially on a perennial basis,” he said. “In all, we are taking 570 delegates.” Cde Madiro said their main resolutions were the same as those of all the other provinces. “Our other resolution is for the return of District Coordinating Committees,” he said. Mashonaland West chairman Cde Ziyambi Ziyambi said they had completed the accreditation of about 500 delegates that would be attending the congress from the province. “We are going to have a provincial inter-district meeting on Thursday to reaffirm the resolutions that we will present at the congress and after that delegates will board buses to Harare,” he said. Mashonaland East chairman Joel Biggie Matiza said they were almost through with the accreditation process. “Our accreditation started yesterday and will be completed tomorrow (today),” he said. “We have 647 delegates that will be attending the congress.” Accreditation of delegates in Masvingo province was also reported to be complete, with 650 delegates expected to attend the Extraordinary Congress from the province. About 6 000 delegates drawn from the Central Com­mittee, National Consultative Assem­bly, National Council of the Women’s League, National Council of the Youth League, Provincial Executive Coun­cils and the main, women’s and youth wings are expected to attend the Extraordinary Congress. As per tradition, the Extraordinary Congress will come after a Politburo meeting tomorrow and a Central Committee gathering on Wednesday. Delegates will head to Harare on Thursday, with the main business being done on Friday. Delegates will return to their respective provinces on Saturday. This year’s event has seen the number of days being cut, while the budget was also reduced from $8 million to $3 million.