Cde Khaya Moyo Herald Reporter The Zanu-PF Politburo meeting, which was scheduled to take place at the revolutionary party’s headquarters in Harare yesterday, was postponed to today. The revolutionary party also moved the Central Committee meeting that was pencilled in for today to tomorrow. Zanu-PF spokesperson Cde Simon Khaya Moyo yesterday confirmed the changes. “The Zanu-PF Politburo meeting scheduled for today (yesterday) has been postponed to tomorrow Wednesday, December 13, 2017 at the same venue (Zanu-PF headquarters) at 10am,” he said. “The Central Committee meeting scheduled for tomorrow (Wednesday) will now be held on Thursday December 14, 2017 at the same venue at 10am. “All members affected are advised to be seated by 10am respectively, without fail. Any inconvenience is sincerely regretted.” The two high-level meetings mark the beginning of processes leading to the party’s Extraordinary Congress slated for Friday. Delegates are expected to start arriving tomorrow for the one-day event to be held at the Robert Mugabe Square in Harare. About 6 000 delegates from the party’s 10 provinces are expected to attend the event. Officials spent the better part of yesterday accrediting at the party headquarters, with accreditation of most delegates having been completed in their respective provinces. The main business for the Congress will be to endorse changes that came up as a result of Operation Restore Legacy that helped stop the rot in the party caused by the G40 cabal. The Extraordinary Congress will focus on three items, the first one being to confirm President Mnangagwa as the President and First Secretary of the party. The second is to endorse President Mnangagwa as the presidential candidate for the 2018 harmonised elections, while the last item is to endorse Central Committee resolutions made on November 19. The resolutions include the recalling of former First Secretary and President Cde Robert Mugabe and confirmation of the expulsion of G40 cabal members who included ex-First Lady Grace Mugabe, Phelekezela Mphoko, Jonathan Moyo, Saviour Kasukuwere, Patrick Zhuwao, Kudzanai Chipanga, Mandi Chimene and Ignatius Chombo. The Central Committee meeting further resolved to improve the standing of war veterans and reinstate District Coordinating Committees which had been abolished. The delegates will be drawn from the Central Com­mittee, National Consultative Assem­bly, National Council of the Women’s League, National Council of the Youth League, provincial executive coun­cils and the main, women and youth wings. This year’s event has seen the number of days being cut, while the budget was also reduced from $8 million to $3 million.