Jose Mourinho MANCHESTER. — Jose Mourinho aimed a dig at Manchester City’s resources as he bemoaned Manchester United‘s own problems in rebuilding the squad as he looks to return the club to its former glories. The Portuguese found himself frustrated at dropping two more points over the festive season on Boxing Day, with Burnley securing a 2-2 draw at Old Trafford. Two goals from Jesse Lingard clawed Mourinho’s side back into the contest following two first-half strikes from Ashley Barnes and Steven Defour, and while he was disappointed at his team’s inability to secure the win, he spoke out on his concerns about recruitment as he hit out at City’s own transfer policy. City spent almost £100million to bring Kyle Walker and Benjamin Mendy to the Etihad, while also spending another £27m on Danilo, and Mourinho insists he needs more in order to be able to compete with Pep Guardiola’s side. He said after the 2-2 draw: “You tell a club like Manchester United, do you think AC Milan are not as big as us? Do you think Real Madrid are not as big as we are? Do you think Inter are not as big as we are? “There are many big clubs, you say big clubs, I know what is a big club. One thing is a big club, another thing is a big football team, they are two diferent things, we are in the second year of trying to rebuild a football team that you know is not one of the best teams in the world. “So when you speak about responsibilities to win the English Premier League, Tottenham doesn’t have that responsibility because they are not the club with the same history as us? The Arsenal doesn’t have a responsibility to win it? Chelsea doesn’t have a responsibility to win it? “Manchester City buy full-backs for the price of strikers! So when you speak about big football clubs, you are speaking about the history of the club.” When put to him that United have spent £300million under him, he added: “It’s not enough. “It’s not enough, and the price for the big clubs is different to the other clubs, so the big historical clubs are normally punished in the market because of that history. So the boys are doing what they can, and they are doing fine. “I say in the last two matches, we had 15 chances to score and we concede three s**t goals and an amazing free-kick. The boys do what they can, they are trying hard with the problems we have, with the injuries we have, the boys fight hard. I’m not happy with the result, wasnt happy with the result against Leicester of course, but I’m happy with my players, no criticism to my players.” — Metro.  