Tendai Biti Rtd Maj-Gen Sibusiso B. Moyo Special Correspondent THE advent of the new dispensation in our country, Zimbabwe, was realised at the inauguration of HE President ED Mnangagwa. This new era was achieved by our people, at home and abroad, who demanded change for the better. Street manifestations, which were joyous and peaceful, were constructed by all our citizens in their colourful diversity without regard to political affiliation. Selfish political ambitions should never be given flight at the expense of the welfare of our citizens. In this regard therefore, it was shocking to watch fellow Zimbabweans led by Tendai Biti, Dewa Mavhinga and Peter Godwin take turns before the USA Senate Foreign Relations Committee to besmirch and further soil the image of their own country. How ironic, they were performing their macabre charade only hours after I had met the American Ambassador to Zimbabwe, HE Mr Harry K Thomas Jnr in my office, amicably to outline how our two friendly nations could re-engage and pursue measures which will benefit both of our peoples. Zimbabwe’s new Government has been in office for shorter than two weeks. It is staggering that these gentlemen should have expected the deeds of 37 years to be corrected and livelihoods improved in that short time. As if that myopia was not enough, the trio and others requested their American hosts for more of the same policies which have inflicted so much suffering on our people. How could any serious putative future leader of our country ask that ZIDERA remains in place? Dewa Mavhinga We all know that the ruinous USA sanctions against our country, Zimbabwe, cause little discomfort to the political elite and the well-off, as represented by the trio on their junket in Washington DC. All of us Zimbabweans should be working to revive our economy, till our fertile soil and trade more competitively so that we all realise better health delivery, education and improved welfare in general. Any internal disagreements should be resolved by our engaging with one another. There is no need to invite outside referees, whose own fate has no relationship to ours. Let us advance our political goals without inviting punitive measures by strangers on our fellow citizens. My call to our fellow citizens is for us to work together and develop our country. We must desist from creating “alternative truths” in regard to our own country for the purposes of political advantage. As His Excellency the President said on his taking office, we shall hold peaceful elections in 2018 guided by SADC principles and African Union recommendations. Any leadership changes can therefore be gotten at the ballot box. There is no need to go abroad and seek assistance to further harm one’s own country. All Zimbabweans are free to canvas for political fortunes of their choice. Let us do this without reversing the promise of our new dawn. All nations of goodwill are invited to assist us to regain our position in the family of nations, not as beggars but, as a prospering and vibrant democracy. It is therefore incumbent upon every Zimbabwean to contribute towards the elimination of any threats to the peace and stability of our motherland.