Sports Reporter FORMER Champions CAPS United who returned home yesterday have said they will cultivate their growing relationship with Saudi Arabian teams after they featured in an invitational match in the Asian country last week. The Green Machine were hosted by professional league side Al Taween on Thursday in a match which the hosts beat CAPS United 3-1. But crucially for Makepekepe is that they have struck a good relationship with the FIFA and UEFA match agents IAST Sports, who indicated that they may facilitate a two-week pre-season tour to the Asian country next year. CAPS United chief executive Cuthbert Chitima said although their performance was subdued due to fatigue it was a worthwhile experience. “It was a good experience, we had a very competitive match and the only thing that spoiled the game was poor officiating. They wanted the home team to win at all costs. They scored first, then we equalised through John Zhuwawo. The team got a dubious penalty and led 2-1 before we lost concentration in the added time and they scored another goal. “The travel arrangement affected us as we arrived at our hotel on the same day we were playing the match later in the afternoon. But the players did their best. The agents are now trying to organise a pre-season for us for two weeks. We will see how it goes,” said Chitima. As the players prepare to go for the festive season, Chitima said they were expecting to give everyone their outstanding money. CAPS United just like many top-flight clubs owe their players money, but Chitima said they are confident that they will clear all the arrears and retain most of their stars whose contracts are running out at the end of this month. “The funds from CAF, we are expecting them any time, but the presidium was organising something so the players should get money before they go for the Christmas break,” Chitima said. CAPS United who appeared to have put much of their focus on the Champions League campaign and finished fifth on the Premiership log standings, will this season not hold the end of year awards ceremony.