CAPE TOWN. – Pace bowler Chris Morris has been restored to South Africa’s squad for the first Test against India next week after recovering from a groin injury, Cricket South Africa said yesterday. Morris replaces Duanne Olivier in the 15-man squad for the test at Newlands in Cape Town, which starts next Friday. Captain Faf du Plessis and bowler Dale Steyn, who were both laid low by flu this week and missed the one-off test against Zimbabwe, are also included. There is also a return for Quinton de Kock, who hurt his hamstring in the Boxing Day Test and was unable to keep wicket in Zimbabwe’s two innings. South Africa won by an innings and 120 runs inside two days at St George’s Park in Port Elizabeth and now meet India over three Tests in January. Meanwhile, Indian opener Shikhar Dhawan was not impressed with Emirates Airlines after he arrived in South Africa yesterday without his family. India have arrived in South Africay ahead of a tour that will see them play three Test matches, six ODIs and three T20Is against the Proteas. The Indian squad’s journey to South Africa saw them stop over in Dubai, and it was there where Dhawan’s family experienced problems. According to the 32-year-old, his wife Aesha and their two children were asked to produce their birth certificates and other identification documents before boarding the flight. Dhawan called it “unprofessional” that they had not been informed of the need to produce such documents before beginning their journey. As a result, his family was made to stay in Dubai until their relevant documents arrived while Dhawan continued his journey to Cape Town with his team-mates. The classy left-hander took to Twitter to get stuck into the airline. The first Test between India and South Africa gets underway on January 5 in Cape Town. South Africa Squad Faf du Plessis (captain), Hashim Amla, Temba Bavuma, Quinton de Kock, Theunis de Bruyn, AB de Villiers, Dean Elgar, Keshav Maharaj, Aiden Markram, Morne Morkel, Chris Morris, Andile Phehlukwayo, Vernon Philander, Kagiso Rabada, Dale Steyn. – Reuters.