Ryan Gwidzima Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S upcoming squash player Ryan Gwidzima put up a commendable performance on Tuesday to finish 17th out of 128 participants in the boys’ Under-13 at the US Junior Open Squash Championships at Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. Gwidzima lost in the round of 32 in the main draw and moved to the consolation draw, where he beat United States’ Owen Yu 3-1 to win the Plate final on Tuesday and claimed position 17 in the process. The 12-year-old was making his debut appearance at the championships courtesy of an invitation by the US Junior Open Squash Championships chief executive, Kelvin Klipstein through some Zimbabweans based in the United States. His father Langton Gwidzima yesterday could not hide his joy as he said this is a huge achievement for his son. “To me it’s quite an achievement to be number 17 of the best players in the world, like the guy he beat in the final is ranked number 9. And I think for Ryan that’s very good considering his age. He is young, he just turned 12. His future is bright. I think he has put Zimbabwe on the world map in terms of squash,” Langton said. The tournament saw boys and girls competing in the Under-11, Under-13, Under-15, Under-17 and Under-19 age-groups. Langton, who is also Ryan’s coach is excited about the future and believes his son can even do better next time. “Since he is number 17, we need to just push for maybe the top five. I am sure he would like that and I would like that as well,” said Langton. Sports Commission acting director-general Joseph Muchechetere also hailed the young athlete for representing the country well at the championships. “The Sports and Recreation Commission would like to heartily congratulate Ryan Gwidzima for his exceptionally outstanding and sterling performance at the just ended Plate final (at the US Junior Open Championships) Squash tournament which he won yesterday (Tuesday) in the US. “This is an amazing and phenomenal achievement at a world level. Ryan’s achievement is a demonstration that Zimbabwe has the talent and pedigree to withstand any form of competition at any level. It is in this light that we need to retain such talent and nurture it further for the good of squash and sport in general,” said Muchechetere. Muchechetere said there is need to invest in such outstanding athletes and ensure they continue representing the country. “We can only retain such talent if we deliberately invest in the technical training and financially supporting such athletes like Ryan as a nation.” Gwidzima is expected back home early next month.