Cross’ endorsement of President Mnangagwa has riled some supporters of the opposition Tichaona Zindoga Political Editor MDC-T national executive member, legislator and economist Eddie Cross has once again caused the opposition to be caught up in some very uncomfortable, knicker-twisting scenario. On Christmas Day, he wrote an article that all but endorsed the leadership of President Emmerson Mnangagwa, extolling his virtues of hard work, focus and pragmatism. Further, and more importantly, Cross predicted that President Mnangagwa would do well economically in 2018 and in the short term before the next election. Cross juxtaposes this with the shambolic state of the opposition and the ailing state of its leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, a subject that has turned Cross into a figure of hate among a circle of Tsvangirai’s fanatics and bigoted supporters. But here is Cross: “Of interest to me as an economist, was his (President Mnangagwa) short sojourn at the Ministry of Finance. I do not recall the circumstances, but I do remember how effective he was in a very short space of time. “This view was reinforced by the senior civil servants in the ministry, who said he was clear-headed, did not have to be told anything twice, made decisions and was a pleasure to work with. Most of all, he took advice and listened. So often a weakness in so called ‘strong men’.” That’s positive number one. “I have been a Member of Parliament for 10 years, during that time we have had many interchanges with Emmerson. “He has a very sharp mind and a sense of humour, but if you do take him on, expect no prisoners. The one thing that always impressed me was his automatic authority in the House of Assembly – often a rowdy and unruly place. If he stood up in a debate or at question time, a hush would descend on the House. Very few command that kind of control.” That’s number two. Number three: “The President has made it clear, he is going to deliver a free and fair election, the outcome of which cannot be contested by anyone. “He knows what that entails, and that the international community will hold him to his word and demand that he delivers in every way. The signs are already there that this is being considered and that changes are being implemented. . .” Cross then delivers his fourth and most important view of the President when he concludes: “Mnangagwa is in absolute control of the State and I think he is going to deliver. One of the key elements behind this strategy is that he knows the opposition is in shambles. The other thing he knows fully well is that only a democratically elected Government will be recognised by the international community and recovery and reconstruction of the Zimbabwe State and economy is not possible without that.” He professes that there is an impactful “early momentum”. “Time alone will tell, but the early indications are that we will see very significant changes in 2018 and that our economy and maybe our country, will begin the long road back to where we should have been.” It will not be useful to belabour Cross’ postulations and indeed the endorsement of President Mnangagwa, which has so riled some supporters of the opposition. A couple of key points can be made, though. President Mnangagwa is carrying a lot of goodwill from many Zimbabweans and many in the opposition have been heard remarking that they are willing to give the new administration a chance. In light of the public lynching of Cross by some MDC-T zealots, a good number of opposition members have come out to support not only his right to hold and express opinions, but also such opinions as amounting to supporting the new administration. Cross’ race and vocation as an economist become important, for both domestic and foreign dynamics. That a white man of Rhodesian extraction is willing to give a chance to the Government of President Mnangagwa is important. The latter is likely to get the attention and sympathy of hostile people who predicated their attitudes and policies on the sensibilities of people such as Cross. That cannot be underestimated. Conversely, there are genuine fears that the opposition may lose the key white “Rhodesian” constituency, what with moves by the new administration to tackle, once and for all, issues such as land reform by either offering compensation or opening the possibility of incorporating some whites in the agricultural economy. The new administration is keen on amending property laws and relations. That is another key area, and the clarification of indigenisation laws, although fairly impolitic, will make Zimbabwe’s newest leader fit into his bill of being a reformer and business-savvy capable of attracting and retaining capital and investment. An important assumption is that when we wake up in the New Year – in three days’ time – there won’t be a sudden settling in of a hostile economic situation. We have known that over the years, banks, businesses and other key economic players, have colluded to manipulate the economy by spiriting away and externalising billions of dollars, price increases, commodity and currency shortages, all to precipitate a crisis. It has happened in the elections years since 2000. Zanu-PF was invariably the victim of this mischief. As indeed of sanctions imposed on the country which taxed lives and livelihoods all to cause mass revolt, if not in the ballot box. An observer would not lose the glee on the faces of the opposition – who would crow and boast about the populace’s pauperisation (and suffering more and more). There is a change in the air. It will be a happy year if Zimbabweans were to walk to the next elections with happy faces and full stomachs – as opposed to sorrow and hunger induced from outside through local agents – and make decisions on who should be governing them. Whoever is the best man or woman to govern us will win. President Mnangagwa is carrying a positive momentum into the New Year, but he still will be subjected to the test of elections – and they ought to be fair and credible so that he gets the consent and legitimacy that is so critical.