IN WITH THE BIG BOYS . . . Scott Vincent did well to secure a third-place finish at the Indonesian Masters golf tournament JAKARTA. — England’s Justin Rose fired a brilliant round of 10 under par to cruise to victory at the $750 000 Indonesian Masters Golf Tournament in which Zimbabwe’s Scott Vincent did well to finish in third place yesterday. Rose, who is ranked six in the world, was the form player at the Asian Tour’s season-ending event and finished 29 under for the tournament, eight shots clear of Thailand’s Phachara Khongwatmai. The win caps a stellar end to the season for the Englishman in which he has won three tournaments in the past two months. “That’s my largest ever winning margin at a tournament,” Rose told reporters at a press conference. “To really do it at the end of the long season, to come here with my game in good shape and to deal with the jetlag, deal with the rain delays, to stay focused all four rounds, is something I’m very pleased about.” Following a curtailed day of play on Saturday, competitors had to complete their third round early yesterday before commencing with the fourth at the Royale Jakarta Golf Club. After finishing his remaining 10 holes with seven birdies and one bogey for a third round six-under-par 66, Rose held a three shot lead over Zimbabwe’s Vincent going into the final round. Rose started strongly with four birdies in a row before eagling the ninth to make the turn at seven-under-par 29. He kept the momentum up over the back nine, dropping just one shot to bogey the 16th. Poor weather has plagued the event, disrupting play most days, and it was no different yesterday as lightning storms saw the tournament suspended twice. But the foul weather appeared to have little impact on the 2016 Olympic champion, who commanded the clubhouse lead on day one and never relinquished it. Rose admitted it was hard to find rhythm with the delays but said he was pleased with his ability to play just one shot at a time. Finishing second was Phachara, who was in good form throughout the tournament, ending on 21 under overall. Zimbabwe’s Vincent finished third and Yusaku Miyazato of Japan fourth. — AFP.