Charles Manyuchi Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter FORMER World Boxing Council (WBC) silver welterweight champion Charles Manyuchi has been given an opportunity to reclaim the title next year. The development comes after the World Boxing Council ordered former WBC welterweight champion Qudratillo Abduqaxorov to fight the current champion Shawn Porter early next year. Abduqaxorov beat Manyuchi in March, in Singapore to claim the title before losing it. And the winner between Abduqaxorov and Porter will then face the Zimbabwean. Manyuchi’s manager at Oriental Quarries Boxing Promotions, Chris Malunga, confirmed the development in a statement on Monday night. “The World Boxing Council (WBC) has ordered the former welterweight WBC silver champion Qudratillo Abduqaxorov to fight the current WBC silver welterweight champion Shawn Porter in January-February 2018 and the winner will be committed to fight Charles Manyuchi. “This comes after I made a request in Baku during the 55th Convention of World Boxing Council (WBC) to the board of governors that Manyuchi should be given a chance to challenge the winner between Shawn Porter and Adrian Browner,” said Malunga. Malunga had indicated in September, just before his departure for the WBC Convention held in Baku, Azerbaijan in October that he was going to bid for Manyuchi to be given another chance to challenge for the title. The promoter believes the latest development comes at the right time since it also presents them with more time to prepare. “I am very grateful to World Boxing Council (WBC) president Mauricio Sulaiman, the board of governors and the entire staff of WBC secretariat. The timing is excellent because it gives us more time to prepare Manyuchi for the Championship,” Malunga said. For Manyuchi this comes as a boost for him after succumbing to a surprise defeat at the hand of Abduqaxorov and will be hoping for a strong comeback come next year. Manyuchi’s defeat in March came as a disappointment to many Zimbabweans who had anticipated a victory from the country’s top boxer who had previously emerged victorious away from home.