Mukudzei Chingwere Midlands Bureau NEWLY promoted Premiership outfit Nichrut FC have appealed to the corporate world for help in building or renovating a stadium in the mining town so that they will be able to host their league assignments in Shurugwi. Nichrut, a club owned by a local businessman, Nicholas Gara, became the first team ever from the scenic town of Shurugwi to be elevated into the country’s top-flight and fears were that the financial requirements of having a side in the elite league might be too much for an individual. Mashurugwi, as Nichrut are affectionately known, enjoy a huge following in Shurugwi, which will be valuable for intimidating opponents in their Premiership matches, but if they have to contend with having to find an alternative venue, it could be a disadvantage for them to play away from their fans. With their stadium needing some facelift to be able to host topflight football, the money to renovate a stadium might be exorbitant for an individual, and the club has now appealed to the corporate world to assist them. “We have reached this stage of gaining promotion and there are areas we feel we need help on when coming into the Premier League. For example the cost of renovating the stadium to meet PSL status might be too much for us. “Those are the areas (where) we need help so that our team continues to play in Shurugwi. The people of Shurugwi have long wanted to host Premier League matches, now that we are in there, if the stadium is ready, then it will be a dream come true for everyone in the town. “But for those in Shurugwi who might be willing to offer us help in any way, it will be greatly appreciated,” said Admire Hapazari, the club’s secretary-general. Nichrut had targeted Unki Mine to help them in renovating a stadium, but remarks by the company’s general manager Walter Nemasasi while addressing journalists this week deflated any hopes of assistance coming to the team. “We have been under a lot of pressure to try and get into soccer, probably (because) some people in our industry are there. Mimosa is there Zimplats is there. “But we are not the same size as Mimosa or Zimplats and we have been there for much shorter time than Zimplats or Mimosa. “So we still have a lot of things that we have to do and we do not think at this stage we want to be side-tracked on the main issue of the business. “So we will not be there (in football) for a number of years,” said Nemasasi.