Cde Khaya Moyo Felex Share Senior Reporter— ZANU-PF holds a Politburo meeting in Harare today, signalling the beginning of processes leading to Friday’s Extraordinary Congress. Today’s meeting will be followed by a Central Committee meeting tomorrow.Zanu-PF spokesperson Cde Simon Khaya Moyo yesterday said the revolutionary party was ready to roar and would emerge stronger after the Congress ahead of the 2018 harmonised elections. The one-day Congress — running under the theme “Çonsolidating the Gains of Zim-Asset through Unity, Peace and Development’’ — will be held at Robert Mugabe Square in Harare, the venue of 2014’s Sixth National People’s Congress. Said Cde Khaya Moyo: “It is all systems go. Provinces are ready and delegates are only waiting for the day for deliberations. It is a one-day event and we have done away with thematic committees as we have specific issues on the agenda. We kick-start the build up to the Congress day with a Politburo meeting, followed by a Central Committee meeting on Wednesday. On Friday, the meeting is opened in the morning by the President and First Secretary Cde Emmerson Mnangagwa and we have deliberations throughout the day and we close in the evening. Delegates depart the following day. “The Extraordinary Congress is being convened for a specific purpose and nothing outside that will be discussed. This is not an elective Congress. The President and First Secretary will use his discretion on the appointment of his deputies. He may do it now or later, it is up to him.” On the women’s quota being pushed by the Women’s League, Cde Simon Khaya Moyo said: “That resolution came from the Women’s League and the Central Committee might discuss it or not (discuss it).” The main business for the Congress will be to endorse changes that came up as a result of Operation Restore Legacy that helped stop ruinous divisions in the revolutionary party. The Extraordinary Congress will have three items on the agenda; The resolutions include the recalling of former First Secretary and President Cde Robert Mugabe and confirmation of the expulsion of G40 cabal members who include ex-First Lady Grace Mugabe, Phelekezela Mphoko, Jonathan Moyo, Saviour Kasukuwere, Kudzanayi Chipanga, Mandi Chimene and Ignatius Chombo. The Central Committee meeting also resolved to improve the standing of war veterans and to reinstate District Coordinating Committees which had been abolished. About 6 000 delegates from the party’s 10 provinces are expected to attend congress. The delegates will be drawn from the Central Com­mittee, National Consultative Assem­bly, National Council of the Women’s League, National Council of the Youth League, Provincial Executive Coun­cils and the main, women and youth wings. This year’s event has seen the number of days being cut down to one. The budget was also reduced from $8 million to $3 million.