Arsene Wenger LONDON. – Arsene Wenger does not believe star Chilean Alexis Sanchez will leave Arsenal in the transfer window which opens on January 1. But Wenger also admits he is no nearer to establishing where Sanchez’s future lies. Sanchez, whose contract is up at the end of the season, had given the perfect reminder to interested parties of his skills in scoring a second-half double to give Arsenal a 3-2 win over Crystal Palace on Thursday night. However, Wenger, who was equalling Manchester United legend Sir Alex Ferguson’s English Premier League record of 810 matches in charge, told Sky Sports he is confident Sanchez, who took his goals tally to eight in the Premier League this term, will remain. “I am not fearful but as you said that will be a subject that arises because of his contractual situation,” said Wenger. “I can only repeat what I said until now.” Wenger, whose side are level on points with fourth-placed north London rivals Tottenham Hotspur but with an inferior goal difference, said it is was logical he should be questioned about 29-year-old Sanchez’s future. “I never questioned his commitment but when you have his contract situation and have as a good a game, people question you,” the 68-year-old Frenchman told the BBC. Sanchez’s commitment has been questioned this season following his failure to reach agreement with the north London club about an extension to his current contract that expires at the end of this season. Wenger believes the player’s performance at Selhurst Park showed there has been no let up in the player’s effort, but with the January transfer window about to open, has no idea about the player’s next move. Sanchez scored his first goal in the 62nd minute but not all his team-mates celebrated the strike with him. “First of all nobody knows what will happen really.  It’s difficult to speculate. At the moment we are focused on short-term, that means the next game (against West Bromwich Albion on Sunday) with the players committed and ready to fight,” said Wenger. “It’s not a guarantee of how long you stay somewhere. As long as you are somewhere, you give your best. I felt he was very good tonight from the first minute on, focused on the game. This kind of Sanchez is a great football player, as we know. That’s the kind of performance we want from him.” Jack Wilshere – starting his fourth successive match his longest run in several years – is also in the final year of his contract and Wenger believes he too showed his remains committed to the cause. “They are questioned, always, when people don’t have long contracts,” said Wenger. “The best way to show they are committed is to give that kind of performance. Jack is coming back in competitive shape. He gives something to the team at the moment, and gave a good final ball for the third goal.” Wenger said Arsenal and Wilshere are due to open talks in January. “The situation is that we need to sit down with him. Beginning of January, it’s planned. There is no delay. I said we would sort out his situation in December, end of December, and so I told him we want to meet and sit down with him to talk about the future. Now we play today, we play on Sunday, we play on Wednesday. At the moment the focus has to be on the games.” Wilshere says he is sure a resolution to contract talks with Arsenal will be found. Wenger had revealed negotiations over a new deal were dependent on Wilshere settling on financial terms. The midfielder’s current contract is due to expire in the summer but he has expressed his desire to remain at the club. Responding to Wenger’s latest remarks, Wilshere told Sky Sports: “I spoke to the boss and he said he will speak to me. We’ll see when he speaks to me and I’m sure it will get done.” Wilshere completed the full 90 minutes for the fourth consecutive Premier League game in Arsenal’s 3-2 win over Crystal Palace on Thursday. The 25-year-old has re-established himself in Wenger’s starting line-up after spending last season on loan at Bournemouth. He furthered his case for regular first-team football with an assist for Sanchez’s second goal of the game – which ultimately proved decisive. Asked if he is back to his best, Wilshere said: “It’s difficult to say. I was happy with my form last year, I’m probably better now. I feel better, fitter. I’m getting better each game. I’m enjoying my football, another game, another three points, I’m happy.” Palace manager Roy Hodgson was frustrated at his side’s defeat, their first in nine games, but relieved Wilfried Zaha was not punished more harshly after being shown a yellow card following an angry exchange with referee Michael Oliver at half-time. “I think he (Zaha) felt hard done by in the first half. He was bundled over once or twice. It’s difficult for a manager really to make sensible judgements on whether the referee got it right or whether he had a case. You’re talking about one of the best referees in the country, someone I very much respect,” said Hodgson. “I wasn’t creating as much fuss as Wilf was, but I wasn’t the one being bundled over. He did well to calm down at half-time to make sure any injustice he might have felt was channelled into his performance.” - AFP.  