MARK OF ELEGANCE . . . Zimbabwe’s Under19 Cricket team pose for a photo ahead of their trip to the World Cup in Australia shortly after being dressed by Harare fashion outlet 4May Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter THERE is a mixture of excitement and uncertainty in the Zimbabwe national cricket team camp as they brace themselves for the spotlight in the pioneering four-day Test against neighbours South Africa on Boxing Day. The Chevrons, who are set to leave for South Africa today, are aware of the challenge ahead of them as the whole world will be watching, following the heated debate over the feasibility of playing the longer version of the game over four days instead of the traditional five. However, the International Cricket Council have given the four-day Test matches a trial run until 2019 and the two neighbours will get the ball rolling in Port Elizabeth on December 26. Zimbabwe skipper Graeme Cremer yesterday described the enthusiasm in the Chevrons camp ahead of the first ever day/night showdown to be played in South Africa against the world’s number two ranked Test nation. The Chevrons are keen to get the experience with the pink ball. But the gulf between bottom placed Zimbabwe and South Africa cannot be understated. “I am sure a lot of people will be following because this is the first of its kind. So we have to work hard for some positive performances so that we continue to give our fans something to cheer about in the run up to the World Cup qualifiers. “Of course, it’s tricky playing South Africa on their home soil. There is a little bit of pressure, but we are used to it, we have to apply ourselves to the best of our abilities. “The most encouraging thing is that everyone in our side is gearing up for it. We have some guys who have been playing domestic cricket and some of us in Bangladesh. South Africa are a very strong Test side, we need to be at our best,” said Cremer. “We are excited about the prospects of playing the pink ball cricket. We’re also looking forward to the first ever four-day game. But we are a little bit in the dark because this is something new. “Basically, we are not used to the day-night matches and this will be quite an experience. I think we will have an idea of what to expect after we have played the practice game.” Zimbabwe will have 10 days in South Africa to acclimatise to the anticipated playing conditions. The three-day day-night practice match against the SA Invitation XI at Boland Park from December 20 to 22 will give them a glimpse of what to expect. The Chevrons have had some positive performances this year and the return of some of their key players — Kyle Jarvis and former skipper Brendan Taylor — from England has helped boost the side. The selectors retained the core of the squad that include the likes of Craig Ervine, Hamilton Masakadza, Sikandar Raza, Chris Mpofu and Chamu Chibhabha. They also introduced two uncapped players — Ryan Burl and Blessing Muzarabani — in the 15-member squad that was announced this week. “It’s good to see these guys coming through. They have done well in the domestic cricket and they need this experience. We will see how they will handle the challenge,” said Cremer. Tendai Chatara was also recalled to the Test fold after a three year hiatus. The ICC have laid the ground rules for the inaugural four-day Test which will see a minimum of 98 overs per day, eight more than the usual quota in five-day Tests. Also, a 150-run lead will be enough to enforce follow on instead of the usual 200. The teams will play for six and half hours each day instead of the usual six hours with each sessions lasting a minimum of two hours and a maximum of two-and-half hours. Zimbabwe Test Squad: Graeme Cremer (captain), Hamilton Masakadza, Craig Ervine, Brendan Taylor, Chamunorwa Chibhabha, Regis Chakabva, Sikandar Raza, Ryan Burl, Tendai Chatara, Blessing Muzarabani, Tendai Chisoro, Peter Moor, Solomon Mire, Kyle Jarvis, Chris Mpofu