Michael Mahendere Yeukai Karengezeka-Chisepo Arts Correspondent Dazzling performance exhibited by South African gospel star Loyiso Bala and Minister Michael Mahendere at the latter’s live DVD recordings of “Getting Personal With God 111” and “Classical Worship” proved that the two are a strong force in the regional music industry. Held at the 7Arts Theatre last week, the much-anticipated event lived up to billing with fans filling the venue to capacity. The peak of the show was when Bala and Mahendere performed their duet “Chiiko”, a track that is topping most music platforms. It left the fans clamouring for more as it ushered them into merry making mood. Bala who is popularly known for his lyrical prowess churned out some of his famous songs such as “Siyabonga” (Thank You) and “Holy Spirit”, turning the atmosphere to a worship zone. Then, Minister Mahendere and his Direct Worship band started off their act by recording “Classical Worship” DVD album that stole the hearts of many revellers. It consists of English, Shona and Ndebele songs such as “Tawanirwe Nyasha”, “Ropa Regwaya”, “I’m Blessed”, “All Things Are Possible” among others arranged in a contemporary style appealing to all ages. The “Makanaka Jesu” hit maker thrilled the fans with his energetic and well-choreographed dances as he continued to dish out his songs. Mahendere belted out his popular hits like “Overcomer”, “Salt of the Earth” and “Makomborero” among others that kept fans on the dancing floor until the end of the show. In an interview, Bala applauded our local gospel music saying it has a distinctive identity across the globe. “I envy what you guys have here, your music has an identity and I think South Africa can learn a lot from that because we still need to build identity and to create music that resonates with who we are as a nation. “Over here people connect with the song and hear voice of God ministering to them whereas in my nation, many are still to sing and make an impact to people’s souls,” said Bala.  