Zimbabwe faces a unique situation in its history in which, for the first time in 30 years, towering figures and co-signatories of the national Unity Accord are no longer on the active political stage. The agreement was signed on December 22, 1987 between then President Robert Mugabe and the late former Vice President Dr Joshua Nkomo, affectionately known as “Father Zimbabwe”. The two revolutionary giants, leading Zanu-PF and PF-Zapu respectively, led their parties into negotiations that stopped the disturbances that destabilised the Midlands and south-western regions of Zimbabwe between 1982 and 1987. Cde Mugabe resigned a month ago while Father Zimbabwe has not been with us since his untimely demise in 1999. The disturbances that these two men stopped had all the hallmarks of destructive and fratricidal African conflicts and accounted for many deaths, including those of civilians — gashing into the national psyche a deep and troubling wound. As with all violent conflicts in which the army is involved, civilians were disproportionately affected and tourists were also caught up in the melee and carnage. It eventually dawn on the leaders of the main parties that the horrors of conflict had to stop and a nationwide political process begun to end hostilities and bring peace to communities with leaders travelling together to affected areas. The culmination was the signing of the peace agreement that was more profound to the extent that it sought to engender national unity, cohesion and brotherhood, which Zimbabweans were yet to discover in the youth of their nation. It was a good foundation, albeit with a number of problems, some of which can still be felt to this day with calls to address certain aspects of the unity process. But we do not live in a perfect world. The overarching good is that Zimbabweans live in a peaceful, unitary state that will not be shaken. Much less, it will not be shaken by political opportunists that seek to gain cheap political capital from the events of the past or exploit geographical, social and linguistic differences among Zimbabweans. We can still live in peace and prosperity in our diversity. Which is what is going to happen. We also take note that the recent Operation Restore Legacy in which the Zimbabwe Defence Forces moved to stop the rot in the ruling Zanu-PF, which had been captured by an anti-revolutionary and ahistorical clique going by the name of G40, which was bent on cleaning the ruling party of its historical identity, character and achievements, has further enhanced the spirit of unity. It is not far-fetched to surmise that historical milestones, and obligations, observances and sanctity that come with them were going to be some of the earliest casualties of Zanu-PF being overrun by elements without grounding in revolutionary ethos and values. Some G40 elements were known to possess forked tongues, and historical revisionism would have kicked in within a larger counter-revolutionary and regime change agenda that was going to be carried out from within the party itself — the party of Cdes Robert Mugabe and Joshua Nkomo. Thanks to the highly successful Operation Restore Legacy, our history — and our souls — are safe. We urge Zimbabweans to remain united and coalesce towards the renaissance of our great nation.