Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Karate Union technical director full-contact Kumbirai Musinami says the recent victory by Samson Muripo at the Third International So-Kyokushin Karate tournament in Ahvaz, Iran, is confirmation of the talent in the country. Muripo made an impression at the tournament in Iran after competing in three categories and claiming the international title in the senior men open weight.He came second in the Under-90kgs weight division and third in the kata competition.Musinami believes the victory is a confident-booster ahead of an international tournament they want to host on July 22 in Harare. It s a huge victory especially in light of the fact that we are going to host an international tournament. It shows we have talent. We are very happy and delighted that despite the challenges we faced in finding him resources, he rose above the challenges. It was a tough tournament. He sustained a number of injuries but not one that will stop him from competing because he had to enter in a number of categories. So it was a bit of tall order for him, said Musinami.Musinami said Muripo s achievements were landmark. It just goes to show that we are able, we are capable to bring gold and given resources we can actually do better. While we have very talented (upcoming) karatekas like Tangai Mhlanga, Pumulani Maphosa, we had to settle for experience. He (Muripo) is also talented and he was actually the right candidate. The economic situation is so tough even for the sponsors themselves. So we chose experience because we did not have much of a choice, said Musinami.The ZKU technical director saluted Manson Mnaba of Arosume Property Development and Shihan Vahid for assisting Muripo financially, making it possible for him to compete at the tournament.Muripo, a renowned karateka has over the years done well for the country, carving his name in the elite club of the greatest athletes in the history of Zimbabwean sport.He became the nation s first black world champion in 2009 after a remarkable performance at the Kyokushin Union World Cup in Japan.Speaking to The Herald yesterday, the seasoned karateka conceded it was not an easy task at the third International So-Kyokushin Karate tournament after entering three categories. One of the reasons why I did that was to make sure I spread my net wider while confusing my opponents who are my number one obstacles since 2009 when I won the world title. It was setting those parameters but when the battle began, I wished I had not even registered in more than one category. I suffered a lot of injuries accrued across the events but managed to enter into the finals, said Muripo.The tournament attracted participants from 19 countries including Japan and Kazakhstan.