Margaret Matibiri and Praise BvumbameraZanu-PF youths yesterday celebrated President Mugabe s 93rd birthday in style after they carried out a 21st February Movement clean-up campaign in Harare in honour of the revolutionary leader. The youths were led by the Zanu-PF secretary for Youth Affairs Cde Kudzai Chipanga. Cde Chipanga promised them 8 000 residential stands in Manyame. There are 8 000 residential stands in Manyame area, which are going to be availed to youths from Harare Province and others from Mashonaland East since Manyame is in that province, said Cde Chipanga. These stands are ready to be given out to the youths, but for now we have big celebrations ahead of us. Celebrations of our President s birthday, which are going to be held this weekend in Matopos. We will discuss the issue of these residential stands after that, he said.Cde Chipanga said the clean-up campaign was done in honour of His Excellency President Mugabe. We as Zanu-PF youths, have taken the initiative to clean up our town. We have cleaned the streets as we pay tribute to our leader President Mugabe on his birthday and with this exercise, we have paid a lot of tribute to his Excellency, said Cde Chipanga.He said the clean-up was inspired by the realisation that MDC-T-led local authorities were failing to manage urban areas. After realising the deteriorating situation, especially in our urban areas, which have been ruined by MDC-dominated councils, we have taken an initiative as the Youth League to embark on this clean-up exercise in line with the ideals of President Mugabe, who always advocate for good health and a decent environment for citizens, he said.Zanu-PF Harare Provincial chairperson for the youth league Cde Edson Takataka promised to deliver victory to President Mugabe and Zanu-PF in 2018. This clean-up campaign is our first birthday present to his Excellence our President. We are cleaning up our city that has been soiled by the MDC-led council that do not have the best interests of Zimbabweans at heart. Our second present will be our vote in the 2018 election. We as the youths, promise to give back Harare to our Zanu-PF leaders and the country to our one and only deserving leader Cde Robert Gabriel Mugabe, he said.This year s 21st February Movement celebrations will be held under the theme Honouring Our Icon, Unlocking the Value in Youth in Matopos in Matabeleland South.