Ben AffleckEverybody loves a little celebrity gossip. Whether its addictions, plastic surgery, or relationship woes, we just can t seem to get enough sometimes.Maybe our fascination stems from the fact that celebrities aren t like us and we re interested in how they live. Maybe it stems from pure curiosity about humanity in general. Maybe our interests stem from schadenfreude and our desire to see people receive a comeuppance.Whatever the cause for your personal interest in celebrity lives, you ought to find the follow list intriguing.It covers some strange and even outlandish celebrity addictions that will pique your sense of amazement and have you shaking your head in disbelief. Read on and enjoy.10. Anna KendrickWe all love Anna Kendrick from seeing her in movies like Up in the Air. She charmed George Clooney, and received an Oscar nomination for that 2009 film. She was also a stand out in Pitch Perfect . She s adorable, lovable, sweet and wholesome, all qualities we appreciate in our movie stars. It turns out, however, that Miss Kendrick has an addiction.While most people consider online gaming to be a leisure time activity, Kendrick has taken it to a whole new level. She claims to play continuously for several hours . . . every day.She says that games like Angry Birds take up almost all of her free time. She s even joked about needing an intervention or therapy to break her addiction to online games and applications.The Rapture-Palooza star has also admitted to being addicted to Reddit and Snapchat, both of which she uses throughout the day. Between the video games, online forums, and text messaging applications, it would be safe to say that Anna Kendrick is addicted to technology, particularly to mobile. There s good news for Anna though.Being addicted to video games that make hours pass by in a blur is perfectly normal for a young adult in the twenty-first century.Cheryl ColeCheryl ColeDid your parents ever tell you that eating too many carrots would turn you orange?Well it seems that Cheryl Cole s parents forget to pass on that particular nugget of wisdom because the celebrity has admitted to having a profound addiction to carrot juice.It s so bad, in fact, that friends say she drinks up to 8 glasses of the healthy but colourful juice in a day. That s a whole lot of vitamin A. At least she won t have to worry about her vision too much.The British singer, originally born Cheryl Ann Tweedy in June of 1983, has worked with acts like will.i.am and Girls Aloud.She is a very talented singer, dancer, television personality, and songwriter who is traditionally known for performing in the genres of pop, R&amp;B and dance.It does seem that if she doesn t curb her addiction to carrot juice, she will be forever known as the orange-tinted singer from England. Now when we see Ms. Cole on X-Factor, we ll wonder if that cup they all drink from contains water, soft drink, alcohol, or carrot juice. Everything in moderation is a popular saying, but it would seem that there are worse things to get addicted to.Jesse EisenbergJesse is well-known for his roles as a lovable geek and for playing Mark Zuckerberg in the movie The Social Network. In the future, however, Jesse might become better known for his peculiar addiction to adopting stray and foster cats. In a 2011 interview he admitted to having 42 cats.The more movies he does, the guiltier he feels about not helping enough cats.It s great that he wants to provide a home for furry felines, but what is the difference between a good deed and becoming that crazy type of cat person?Maybe the addiction is fitting, however, now that Jesse Eisenberg has been cast in the role of Lex Luthor in Zack Synder s upcoming film Batman vs. Superman. Isn t it the case that villains have cats? So would it not logically follow that the more cats the villain has, the more evil he or she is? Perhaps this is all some elaborate form of method acting.7. Megan FoxThe lovely Megan Fox has an addiction to beautiful shoes that goes back to before she was a big star.The star admitted that her first purchase after her big pay day from the movie Transformers was a pair of $600 Roberto Cavalli heels that were black and gold.Up till then the most she had paid for shoes was $30. She didn t stop there, however, and continues to buy fancy footwear. What is interesting is Fox s take on addiction.She has admitted to doing drugs a few times but says she never developed an addiction since she disliked them.She also loves smoking marijuana and strongly recommends that it s use should be decriminalised. The good news for Megan is it isn t criminal to purchase shoes and probably never will be.6. Ben AffleckBen will be starring with Jesse Eisenberg, self-admitted cat addict, in the upcoming Batman vs. Superman movie. Mr. Affleck, however, has an addiction of his own.Fortunately, it isn t cats. Unfortunately, he denies that his gambling is an addiction.Most people would disagree with him, however, because Ben plays poker at least 4 nights in a week, spending around $20,000 on each game.Besides that, he has lost as much as $500,000 in a single night competing in a high stakes poker tournament in Las Vegas. Sure, the star has money, but he surely cannot afford to lose it at that mind blowing rate.Some have speculated the Ben is also developing an addiction to alcohol and that he may even have entered rehabilitation for alcohol addiction in 2001. Many sources say that he has successfully stayed sober for 10 years after his stint in rehab, but that he may be falling off the wagon now. Whatever the case, we wish the best for Ben.5. Robert PattinsonRobert Pattinson is best known for his role in the Twilight series, though he may quickly become known for having no teeth and diabetes when his habit of drinking more than 300 cans of Diet Coke every a week catches up with him.In addition to the sugary soft drink known for its impact on teeth and overall health, Pattinson claims to be addicted to Cinnamon Toast Crunch cereal. He says it is all he eats.When we think about celebrities and coke addictions, our minds usually turn to drugs. In the case of Robert Pattinson, we must rethink that paradigm and shift our focus to soft drinks.The actor is quoted as saying that he has never fallen in love, but one might beg to differ. His love of sugary foods, which he claims is all he consumes, is as close to true love as one can get.Ozzy OsborneJust in case addictions to diet coke, cats, and carrot juice aren t enough to satiate your appetite for weird celebrity addictions, consider Ozzy Osborne s addiction.The famous singer is so addicted to Sugar Puffs that he pays to have them imported from England, the only country that produces them.It seems that Osborne has traded his addiction to alcohol and drugs for an addiction to sugar. Maybe, in his case, the trade isn t so bad.Sugar Puffs are a honey-coated wheat cereal made by Honey Monster Foods in the United Kingdom.They aren t available in the US For the average person, facing an inability to purchase a breakfast cereal means simply choosing another or perhaps having a family member send a box or two over from home every once in a while.Avril LavigneThe 29-year-old singer has admitted to a deep and lasting obsession with eye makeup. Her favourite product is eye liner, but she s more or less addicted to anything that is used to enhance the eyes.She says that the obsession has lasted for years and that she feels more naked without eye makeup than she does without clothes.Miss Lavigne is actually unrecognisable without eye makeup, a fact that speaks more to her addiction than anything else.Even her fans can t recognise her without her trademark makeup, which brings up an interesting point.To her fans, Avril is known for her outstanding music and her heavy use of eye makeup. She takes the term smokey eye to a whole other level. The look is a big part of her Goth Princess brand.Her admirers attempt to emulate her in both sound and appearance. Fortunately, for them and for her, Avril has released clothing lines that feature a lot of skull prints and makeup lines that include her signature eye liner. You have to give her credit for using her makeup addiction to come up with products that fuel that addiction.2. Salma HayekThere s a good chance that at least half of the world s population will not have a problem with Salma Hayek s addiction.In fact, there is a good chance that that same half of the population would actively encourage Salma Hayek to indulge in her addiction. The star has admitted to being addicted to breastfeeding.When her daughter was born, she was quoted saying that she couldn t stop breastfeeding. She even breastfed a child that wasn t hers during a goodwill tour to Africa, something that garnered lots of media attention in both the mainstream press and in places like YouTube.Salma has compared her addiction to similar problems with alcohol and drugs, saying that she always says she ll quit, but then doesn t. As she puts it, I don t care if I cry.I don t care if I m fat. I m just going to do it for one more week, one more month. Yeah, that does sound like addiction.Salma Hayek shot to stardom after director Robert Rodriguez cast her in his 1995 film Desperado. Jack Black1. Jack BlackIf most people had to guess what Jack Black was addicted to, they would probably say cocaine or speed or at least Ritalin.Those drugs would make perfect sense if they were the favourites of the high-energy, wacky actor.As it turns out, Black s addiction could not be further from those things. In 2008, Jack became a heavy drinker . . . of green tea.He says that he developed the habit after the birth of his second son and admits that he has an addictive personality. How does he know that?Prior to green tea, Black says he was addicted to online gaming and smoking. The star also says that he has faced problems with drugs and alcohol, both issues that arose during his youth.Given the choices, we d have to say that green tea is the better option.What makes Black s addiction to green tea especially interesting is the fact that he prefers it iced. Seriously, who drinks iced green tea?