Takudzwa Chitsiga: Sports ReporterTHE newly-elected Zimbabwe Handball Federation executive board will host their first tournament of the season at Masvingo Polytechnic early next month. The Open Season Tournament will see eight provinces affiliated to the federation sending representatives to the event which returns after close to seven years off the local handball radar.The event will be held on March 4 and 5 in Masvingo and will be used to select players who will represent the country in regional and international tournaments.Alfos Mhondiwa, the ZHF vice-president, said preparations are going on well. We are going to hold our first tournament of the season at Masvingo Polytechnic on March 4 and 5. The event is targeting senior players who are over 17 years and we are excited as this is the first of its kind in close to seven years. The tournament is there to help spread the sport to all parts of the country and we look forward to a successful event. The responses so far are positive and we look forward to a big turnout. Registration has already started and we expect eight provinces to turn up for the tournament. The good thing is that the event will be used to unite handball enthusiasts. Since there is a new board now in charge, it is important to have such events and they help in uniting all the stakeholders. This is the beginning of new things to come for handball in Zimbabwe as we have not had such tournaments in several years and I believe we will have many tournaments this season, said Mhondiwa.The ZHF vice-president also hailed the tournament which he believes is a good platform for clubs to assess themselves ahead of the provincial league competition. I think it is a good platform for clubs to assess themselves in terms of preparedness ahead of the provincial league games. There is need for unity in running the sport. The Open tournament will give a chance to all the players to make an impact and fight for a place in the national team. It will also be a platform to select players who will represent the country in some regional and international tournaments, added Mhondiwa.Some of the handball clubs expected at the tournament include Manyame Falcons, Houghton Park Sharks, Kwekwe, Hardshorts from Manicaland, Banket and Sodbury from Mashonaland West.Meanwhile, the International Handball Federation have now officially recognised Stewart Sanhewe as the new ZHF president. Bulawayo businessman Sanhewe took over the hot seat from Amon Madzvamuse late last year and he will be assisted in running handball in this country by Mhondiwa and Edison Chiroodza, the new secretary-general.