Patrick MukwambaArts Reporter Artistes will today converge at City Sports Bar for the first anniversary of Jam Session, which has so far brought to stage about 1 000 musicians since its inception. Many groups will take turns to entertain music lovers that usually throng the place on Mondays for the exciting programme. Jam Session brings together yesteryear legends and upcoming stars. Each session is graced by more than 10 musicians and it has become a meeting place for artistes that often create alliances during the event.Yesteryear hitmakers like Nicholas Zakaria, Hosiah Chipanga, Patrick Mukwamba, Kireni Zulu, Paradzai Mesi, Peter Tangwena, Cde Chinx and Dino Mudondo have performed at the place.The session has also hosted rising musicians and brought out new stars like Andy Muridzo and Gonyeti. A divas concert that promotes female musicians has also been part of Jam Session.City Sports Bar manager Mathias Bangure said they are happy to have achieved so much within a year. Jam session has become a permanent feature of our entertainment calendar. It has brought together many artistes and I am happy to say many people now identify with the programme. It started on a low note and it has grown into a big event. We did not expect such massive growth within a year, so we are excited, said Bangure.He said most musicians that have taken part at the session will grace the celebrations, although they will not be able to accommodate all on stage. Most of the musicians will be here for our anniversary celebration although they will not all go on stage. They are too many to share the stage on one night. Most of them will do collaborations so that we accommodate as many as possible. Bangure said he would give special mention to Mukwamba, who is famed for yesteryear hit Jonasi (Wapenga Nayo Bonus) who has promised to bring a full band from his base in Rusape. He usually comes alone, but this time he has promised to bring a full band. He called me saying they have been rehearsing and I am glad that he is determined to add value to Jam Session. 