Vongai Mbara Arts Reporter Contemporary music group Club Shanga has made a comeback into the music scene after years of silence.The seven-member group has released a single titled Liveshow , a club song about love, which was recorded at Kings Studios . The group that was formed in 2007 got its breakthrough when it entered the Music Crossroads competition in 2010 and won the first prize.As part of their winning prize, they were given a ticket to tour Europe, a major move that would change their lives.That same year, they had won the Chibuku Road to Fame and were given a cash prize as well as a recording contract.In an interview, Farai Baramasimbe, the co-founder of the group said they recorded an eight-track album in two nights before they went to Europe. I feel like during that time, the producers were only interested in the money so they gave us a ridiculously short period of time to record the album. It was like performing on a live show while they recorded us said Baramasimbe.It was a different story when the recording label refused to give the group the album they had recorded to go and market it on their European tour. We could not market our music when we went to Europe because we did not have the album. All we could do was perform at live shows. On their return from their international tour, they had a few shows in the country before taking a back step.After some years, Music Crossroads opened a music academy to empower arts in Zimbabwe where the group studied Music Theory and Practice .This time around they went to prominent music promoters for advice. We went to music promoters that are doing big things in the industry and they told us that the music is good ,but it is not commercial. So we went back to the drawing board and we came up with this Afro-pop sound, he said.The group that will be releasing their single this weekend are already working on a music video and an album. Our single will be out this weekend and I am confident that it will cause a stir on the music scene. We are already working on the video and an album is coming out soon. 