Girls from different schools follow proceedings during the All-Girls indaba at Chibhanguza Hotel in Murehwa last weekLovemore Meya Cool Lifestyle Correspondent Ten schools from Murehwa attended an All-Girls indaba at Chibanguza Hotel in Murehwa last Friday where girls hailed their empowerment through Government s STEM programme. STEM prioritises subjects related to Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics.The indaba was running under the theme: Amplifying the voice of the Girl Child through technology, transformation and empowerment .The All Girls Indaba is a Shamwari Yemwanasikana brainchild that seeks to empower girls through a number of activities that affect them in all facets of life.These include social, emotional and physical issues associated with gender-based violence on their access, retention and completion of education as well as sexual and reproductive health rights.In an interview, this is what they had to say.Tendai Kamiso who is doing Upper Six at Chemhondoro Secondary School said when talking of girls in leadership there is need to look at their challenges. When we talk of girls in leadership, we cannot circumvent the challenges they face or even women occupying such positions and also taking a look at the opportunities they have over boys. The theme resonates well with the STEM initiative that was implemented by the Government and we have discovered that these two go hand-in-hand because we cannot talk of girls in leadership without empowering them, she said.She said girls face challenges due to gender stereotyping since cultural norms view girls as being inferior to boys. We, as women can also lead and give men orders to follow as we have what it takes to change the world through our leadership skills, added Kamiso. I am studying sciences Maths, Physics, Chemistry and computers. Technology amplifies our voices since it creates new ideas for women and everyone. Looking at our school, we have more girls than boys taking science subjects hence empowering us to be innovators, said Octavia Pinga (18) an Upper Six student at Murehwa High School.Hurengwe Secondary School Form Two student Annah Tanyanyiwa said the indaba helped her a lot about her rights. After attending this programme it became an eye-opener to us girls that we should not be abused but stand for our rights. Again, we have leant that we are equal to boys in all aspect of life be it at school, we should participate and perform just like boys do. A lot of us we have come to realise the importance of school especially in these trying times where a lot of girls are dropping out after being married off at a tender age. Ordinary Level student Wendy Nhodza of Nyamutumbu High School echoed the same sentiments saying she was going to spread the message to fellow girls. I enjoyed being part of this event as we were taught a lot about what we should be doing to get empowered as girls. To those who were not part of this programme I would like to urge them to be positive in life and never allow anyone to look down upon them, she said.