Tiger WoodsLOS ANGELES. American golfer Pat Perez had harsh words for his compatriot Tiger Woods.Perez believes Woods knows he can t beat anybody and predicted we could have seen the last of him this season, and possibly for good. Woods was expected to issue a statement on his condition late yesterday after his back problems flared up again following a first-round 77 at the Dubai Desert Classic earlier this month, a week after he missed the cut in the Farmers Insurance Open.The 14-time major winner, who returned to competitive golf in December after almost 16 months out following back surgery, withdrew from the second round in Dubai and has since pulled out of the Genesis Open and this week s Honda Classic on medical advice.Woods is running out of time to get himself fit for the Masters in early April, and Perez insists he could be done for the year if he is unable to tee up at Augusta National.Woods, who has won 14 majors, has struggled for form and fitness in recent times which has seen his ranking slip to 704th in the world.He has battled a back injury in recent years and played his first PGA Tour event in 17 months at the Farmers Insurance Open in January.He missed the cut there, and then pulled out of the Dubai Desert Classic after just one round earlier this month.Perez, who is ranked at 67th in the world, believes Woods days as a professional golfer are numbered.In an interview with SiriusXM PGA TOUR Radio, Perez admitted that Woods is still the biggest name in golf, but then cast doubt on the former world No. 1 s ability to remain competitive. He is the needle mover, he is the needle. He is everything in the game still today until he walks away, he s always going to be the name . . . he is the game of golf as we know it today, but the bottom line is he knows he can t beat anybody, Perez said. He s got this new corporation he started so he has to keep his name relevant to keep the corporation going. So he s going to show up to a few events, he s going to try to play&#8230; he s going to show the Monster bag, he s going to show the TaylorMade driver, he s gonna get on TV. He s got the Nike clothes, he s gotta keep that stuff relevant. But the bottom line is he knows he can t beat anybody. He knows it. He shot 77! That guy can t shoot 77. What does he do the next day? Aw my backs gone. He knows he can t beat anybody! Woods (41) also withdrew from last week s Genesis Open in Los Angeles and controversially cancelled a scheduled press conference at the tour- nament. After receiving daily treatment the last several days on his on-going back spasms, Woods has again been advised by doctors to limit all activities and will not hold a press conference on Wednesday, the tournament said in a statement last week.Perez went on to say that if Woods doesn t play in this year s Masters at Augusta National, his season is likely over. Personally, I don t think you ll see him again this year . . . the guy can t show up to an interview! Perez continued.The 40-year-old Perez has been a professional golfer since 1997 and has won four professional events, two coming on the PGA Tour.His best result at a major is tied for sixth place at the 2005 PGA Championship.Woods, on the other hand, boasts 106 professional wins.Woods was scheduled to attend a pre-tournament press conference at Riviera last week as the Genesis Open is one of the PGA Tour events to benefit his foundation, but he was forced to cancel his trip as his doctors had advised him to remain horizontal as he continues to battle back spasms.He is ineligible for next week s WGC-Mexico Championship, where Rory McIlroy will play for the first time since January after recovering from a stress fracture in his ribs, so Woods next target will be to play at the Arnold Palmer Invitational which starts on March 16. AFP