Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Dynamos treasurer Moses Chikwariro has bounced back into the Glamour Boys executive after five years as the Harare giants beef up their structures to meet the challenges of the coming football season. Chikwariro and ex-Dynamos Harare Metropolitan Supporters Association treasurer Graham Mafoko are the new faces in the executive committee led by club president Kenny Mubaiwa.Before their appointment this month, DeMbare s day-to-day affairs had been run by two officials with Mubaiwa as president and Webster Marechera, who has been doubling as treasurer and secretary-general since the resignation of Webster Chikengezha nine months ago.Chikwariro has been roped in as a committee member while Mafoko has provisionally been handed the organising secretary s post.Club president Mubaiwa said two more announcements will be made to fill the vacant posts of vice-president and secretary-general. We are happy with these appointments. We have worked with Chikwariro before as our treasurer and he is coming back into the executive. We are also excited to have Mafoko. He has been with the supporters executive where he has done a tremendous job mobilising the supporters both in the community and for the club s cause. Again, as the club s leadership we would want to have closer links with our supporters, that is why we have decided to take him on board, said Mubaiwa.Chikwariro, who resigned in 2012 citing pressing personal commitments, said he was excited to be back in the executive.He has also been spearheading the club s recruitment drive aimed at fostering an organised fan base. I was here in 2012 and I am glad to be back again, he said. The period I was away, I have seen that the club has worked tremendously well and have achieved so many things, winning the championship four times. It was just the previous two seasons that we could not make it but I think this year we are going to achieve great things. I also hold a portfolio as membership chairman. We are going to continue registering members. Mafoko has been involved with the Harare Metropolitan chapter which organised the club s player awards last year. They have also mobilised donations to children s homes and the less privileged in the city as part of the club s social responsibilities. I would want to appreciate the board and the president for identifying me to be one of the executive members, in particular to be the organising secretary of Dynamos Football Club. The purpose, I think they have seen it, coming from the supporters side as one of Harare Metropolitan supporters treasurer, we have done a number of activities in support of the club hence the expertise and experience is no longer just for the supporters but for the club as well. So my coming in is to lift the Dynamos brand and flag high so that we complement the current executive. We will try to come up with strategies and interventions that can lift the Dynamos banner higher. A number of activities will be unveiled, just like the launch of the DeMbare water. Things have just started and it is my hope that all stakeholders will work together, have one common understanding and to achieve one common goal which is to uplift the Dynamos flag high. There should be a well co-ordinated structure between the supporters and the executive. In other words, there should be harmonisation between the supporters and the club. Coming from that background, I know what the fans expect. Of course in any soccer match there can be three results but with Dynamos the expectation is always win, win, win. 