Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter THE JM Busha Track and Field triangular series took off yesterday at the National Sports Stadium B Arena with over 400 athletes participating in the first leg. The series being sponsored by JM Busha 54 Races will see three events being held between Harare and Bulawayo with the finals set for May 25 at the National Sports Stadium. Athletes will compete for points in the first and second leg based on their times, after which the top 16 will converge in Harare for the final meet in May.The second leg is on March 11 at White City stadium, in Bulawayo. Yesterday s event attracted some of the country s promising athletes such as Botswana-bound Nyasha Mutsetse, who topped the 800m event with a time of 1minute 54.26seconds.Middle distance runners, Moses Tarakinyu, Tendai Zimuto and Canisious Nyamutsita also took part yesterday.Tarakinyu came first in the 5 000m in 14 minutes 36,39 seconds, followed by Zimuto with a time of 14minutes 44,45 seconds. Nyamutsita came third in 14minutes 49, 71 seconds.National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe vice president Enias Nhoro said this was just the beginning of a process to determine the top 16 for the finals. This is a very good event for us as the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe, so we want to thank JM Busha for partnering us. It has given a platform for our athletes to take part in this inaugural event in terms of that it s the only track and field event that we are going to have athletes getting a prize money in the final. The athletes are scoring points as they are running. These points are determined by their performances. The highest obviously will score 32 points and it goes down the ladder. But the top 16 athletes after the Bulawayo edition will then come for the finals on the 25th (of May). So we want to encourage all athletes to take part, give it their best, so that at least they qualify to the last part of 16, said Nhoro. Christian Kelechi also started her campaign on a good note in the women s 100m event when she came first in 12.32seconds. In the field events Isiah Mupfayi and John Nyakonda had a good day in javelin and discuss and will be hoping for a good show in the second leg to earn more points for the finals.