From George Maponga in Masvingo Elections to choose the Zanu-PF Masvingo provincial chairman kicked off late at most voting centres yesterday as bad weather and logistical challenges marred polls aimed at restoring leadership certainty in the province. The elections were a two-horse race between former chair Cde Ezra Chadzamira and war veteran Retired Colonel Mutero Masanganise.In some districts, voting didn t take place as polling officers failed to access certain areas due to flooded rivers following heavy rains.Masvingo interim provincial chairman Cde Jorum Gumbo, who is superintending the polls, last night said he would consult the Politburo on the way forward in areas where voting failed to take place.The polls were set to start at 8am ending at 1pm across all the seven administrative districts in Masvingo, according to Zanu-PF political commissar, Cde Saviour Kasukuwere.However, morning rains in most parts of the province yesterday delayed polling, with voters in some districts doing so around lunchtime.There was also a problem of insufficient ballot papers and shortage of fuel to transport voting materials together with polling officers.When The Herald visited some of the ward centres, voting had not begun by 1pm.In Ward 12B at Nemamwa Growth Point under Masvingo district, voters complained that they waited for hours to cast their ballots. By 1pm, voting materials and polling officers had not arrived, with voters sheltering under shop verandahs from rains.In ward centres such as Zishumbe and Farmers Hall in Masvingo East, only a few voters were present when polling started just before midday. By 3pm, the centres were deserted.Cde Gumbo said voting failed to take place in 14 wards in Chiredzi district and at Chingwizi in Mwenezi East because of a submerged bridge on Runde River. Voting kicked off late because of bad weather and we even considered cancelling the vote altogether, but decided to go ahead after we received calls from people saying they were waiting at various centres to vote, said Cde Gumbo. The other problem was that we got our ballot papers late and polling officers left to conduct the vote late. Bad weather was the main problem, he added.Cde Gumbo said while the voting process was delayed, he had directed voting to go ahead in areas where voters were still waiting. Besides Chiredzi district and Chingwizi area that were inaccessible, voting also failed to take place in Gutu North as polling officers were not ferried to their respective wards centres in time. I am yet to get information on whether things later changed. Cde Gumbo said he was waiting to receive final results from those districts where voting had been completed. I was sent by the Politburo to conduct voting. If we get results from districts where voting was not disturbed and we find out the votes of the two candidates are almost 50-50 or the other candidate is leading by an unassailable margin, I will have to consult my superiors on the way forward. Cde Gumbo visited some of the ward centres to assess progress.There were 120 party members (40 main wing, 40 Women s League and 40 Youth League) who were eligible to vote in every party district.Cde Kasukuwere visited Masvingo earlier in the day to assess progress in polling.The Zanu-PF Politburo recently ordered fresh elections to choose a new provincial executive in Masvingo as most of the posts had become vacant for various reasons. There were still no results at the time of going to print last night.