Cde KasukuwereNyemudzai Kakore:Herald CorrespondentThe appointment of Dr Joram Gumbo as the Masvingo interim chairperson is appropriate, as he will not be biased in respect of any outcome of fresh provincial elections since he does not hail from the province, Zanu-PF National Political Commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere has said. Speaking at a press conference on Thursday, Cde Kasukuwere said Dr Gumbo s nomination came after the party was satisfied with the work and results he had achieved in restructuring the party s districts in the province.As such, said Cde Kasukuwere, his interim chairmanship will bring order and the holding of free and fair elections that were ordered by the Politburo this week. The Politburo dissolved the entire provincial structures of Masvingo and we asked Cde Joram Gumbo in the interim to lead the province and also to ensure that elections are conducted as early (as possible), to bring about order, he said. We have the Mwenezi by-election coming soon. We must be having a provincial structure in place. The decision to choose Dr Gumbo to lead this process follows the precedence. When we dissolved Mashonaland East Province which was led Mr Ray Kaukonde and his cabal, we asked Senate President Cde Edna Madzongwe to lead the restructuring, as well as the elections. Literally, as the commissariat, we can direct and ask our senior cadres in the party to lead the process. We want to get somebody from outside the province who will not be viewed as having an interest in a particular outcome to do that work. His chairmanship will allow people to choose their representatives without being pushed around, without threats and intimidation. We are happy that this decision will finally settle the challenges that have beset our party in Masvingo. Cde Kasukuwere said Dr Gumbo will be assisted in chairing the province by Zanu-PF members whom he worked with in restructuring the Midlands Prov- ince.He said everyone, including the members from the dissolved provincial structure, were eligible to contest in the elections. We lost a third of our key positions in the province from 2014 to date, hence the party took that decision so that we can restore order, said Cde Kasu- kuwere. We will further announce members from the Women s League and the Youth League who will be assisting Dr Gumbo in carrying out his tasks.The Politburo dissolved the Masvingo provincial committee after realising that most members had left their posts for various reasons.Chivi Rural District Council chairman Dr Killer Zivhu, together with Cde Chadzamira and Cde Nhenjana, have since expressed their willingness to contest for the top provincial party position.