Herald Reporters Harare requires over $1,6 billion to solve its water woes which date from the pre-independence era as the rehabilitation of Morton Jaffray Waterworks will only ensure that 80 percent of water demand is met without taking into account new suburbs. After the Morton Jaffray project, Harare requires $670 million for the rehabilitation and upgrade of pipelines, pump stations and reservoirs.Responding to questions from The Herald, acting Harare water director Engineer Hosiah Chisango said the rehabilitation work is part of the solution to the water problems as it will satisfy 80 percent of the current demand. After the Morton Jaffray project, Harare requires $670 million for the rehabilitation and upgrade of pipelines, pump stations and reservoirs. This amount is required over a period of five years. Further to this, $600 million is required for the implementation of the Kunzvi Water Scheme. The Kunzvi Water Scheme is being handled by the Ministry of Environment, Water and Climate, he said. Increased water supplies will also increase the sewage generated in the city and Harare requires about $350 million for the rehabilitation and upgrade of the sewage management facilities which include pipelines, pumping stations and treatment works during the same period, he said.Eng Chisango said concurrently, Harare will be working on critical sections of the water distribution network to reduce water losses and ensure a greater percentage of the water gets to the people.The ongoing and planned expansions, he said, have a projected water demand in excess of 400 megalitres a day and therefore, require the augmentation of the current water infrastructure to increase capacity to be able to meet demand. We have secured some resources from the Zimbabwe Multi-Donor Trust Fund (Zimfund) for the replacement of about 50km of the distribution network, among other projects, which include rehabilitation of the remaining distribution pump stations and metering. Leakage control will increase water availability, he said. There is also need for Harare residents to embrace water conservation strategies so as to increase water use efficiency. The City of Harare acknowledges the current expansions both ongoing and at advanced planning stages that include Caledonia, Harare South, Whitecliffe, Harare North, Chishawasha and Mount Hampden among other developments. On the safety of Harare water, Eng Chisango said the city treats its water according to the guidelines of the World Health Organisation and ensures that there is residual chlorine to kill any disease causing bacteria.Eng Chisango said the satellite towns around Harare are also on a rapid growth path and expect water services from Harare hence Kunzvi Dam remains high as the main solution to the water woes.Town planner Mr Percy Toriro said the construction of Kunzvi Dam was the solution for Harare s perennial water shortages. Although the current Morton Jaffray upgrades will bring relief, they will not sustainably solve Harare s water problems. The problems should be understood in two contexts, firstly the breakdown of the water infrastructure due to normal ageing and wear and tear; and secondly from the growth of the city population for which no provision has been made over the years, he said. While everyone else is concerned about the water shortages, for me as an urban planner, I am surprised that we have managed to come this far. Our projections were that Harare would suffer serious water shortages from the year 2000 hence the plan was to start building Kunzvi Dam in 1996. Recently, Environment, Water and Climate Minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri said Government was nearing agreement with Sino-Hydro of China for the construction of kunzvi dam.The construction is expected to cost $850 million at a build, operate and transfer deal which would be less financially burdensome for the country.