Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter DENVER Mukamba has warned teams in the domestic Premiership to stop dreaming about winning the league title because only Dynamos have capacity to be crowned champions this season. Newboys Yadah Stars president and technical advisor Prophet Walter Magaya claimed two weeks ago that his team had the pedigree of becoming champions in their first season in the top-flight league.But Mukamba, who has become the central figure around which the DeMbare side is being built this season, feels the Glamour Boys will be champions. We were not happy as a team with our position in 2016. We lost a lot of games to FC Platinum, Highlanders and CAPS United and I feel that was not the real Dynamos, said Mukamba. I am sorry to the Dynamos executive, the technical team and our beloved fans. They did not deserve such a performance. This season it s our year and I am assuring everyone a smile. Dynamos are not a small club and you can tell from our club rankings in Africa. We must always be at top and we must be busy defending our titles. I am the breadwinner, I take care of my granny, wife and two kids. When I go to work I must not come back home empty-handed because everyone will suffer. I must bring food to the table and I can only do that by making sure that every match we play we must win. It s our job to bring success at Dynamos, people will see the real Denver from Sunday and will see the PSL 2017 champions-in-waiting. I am working hard and it s going to be a different season and I can assure our fans that we are going to get a straight win against CAPS United. DeMbare meet Makepekepe in the ZNA Army Charities semi-final showdown at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday.Mukamba was the star player who emerged from the built of youngsters built by Mutasa in 2011 and went to South Africa in 2013 where he had spells at Bidvest Wits, the University and Jomo Cosmos.He is now back at the Glamour Boys and he believes he has a lot to prove. I am still young and I am targeting Europe or even another dance in South Africa because the time I went there I was still very young, he said. I am still a force to reckon with in football and all those who support Dynamos please keep on doing that and we are not going to let you down. Two weeks ago Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa and his coaching staff went to Highfield to meet Denver s grandmother and family members as they sought to find ways of bringing the best out of the forward. I have met the family and we are working together. It s not only about Denver but the thrust I want for every player at Dynamos Football Club to be disciplined, said Mutasa. We are not happy as an institution to see the players names splashed in the papers for the wrong reasons. The Dynamos fans must also play their part and avoid buying players beer all the time. I would appreciate if they buy them groceries instead of introducing them to beer. Fans must help us because they have a bigger role to play I would also want to see a situation where players will be at their homes around 2000hrs during the week so that they will have enough time to rest. We are assembling a great team and everyone at Dynamos is important to safeguard our players. 