Dizzy DeeArts Correspondent Although Australia is home to the Wallabies, which is that country s famous national rugby team, Zimbabwean talent is also making its presence felt heavily by the Aussies. When talented R&amp;B singer, Audius Mtawarira who is now based in that country first made his presence felt through his music that appealed to international listenership, some armchair critics thought this was just a musical bubble that would soon burst.But that was not be, because Audius has inspired other Zimbabwean musicians both at home and abroad. One such artistes is young, talented singer and songwriter, Dizzy Dee, a Zimbabwean artiste based in Melbourne, Australia.Ever since his move to Australia in 2007, Dizzy Dee has been working on making his presence felt in various parts of the world where he has collaborated with several artistes, and has since been signed by international reputable record labels.One of his latest achievements is a track titled All that I need which he collaborated with Zimbabwean music producer, Jusa and South African musician, Pasika. I took it as a challenge because I am a reggae artiste and I ve always been asked by fans to do a crossover so I decided to show my talent on an R&amp;B track, said Dizzy Dee.The artiste said the reception he received in Australia, South Africa and other places he visited inspired him to work hard and improve his career. I am currently working on my new album called My Journey which features some of my Jamaican friends and favourite artistes among them Lutan Fyah, Torch, Hawkeye and Beniton. But there is a lot more to that album and collaborations with my favourite Zimbabwean producers like Jusa Dementor, MacDonald Chidavaenzi, DJ Tamuka and Oskid. I also mixed and mastered the song on top of the additional producing, he said.Dizzy Dee said new avenues were beginning to open up for him especially via the online channels that promote music through marketing. There is an online company based in S o Paulo, Brazil that promotes artistes like Tory Lanez, The Weekend, Omarion and most upcoming R&amp;B hit makers and they have contacted me after listening to my new track. He said they have reposted it and have uploaded it to their YouTube channels, and has since been viewed 70 000 times.Some of his tracks that have so far received favourable feedback include All That I Need which features Pasika.Dizzy Dee paid tribute to his father for instilling in him good values. My dad is my biggest model because he has always been strict and I think that has helped me a lot. When I work on projects I take the same approach, he explained.Like any other musician, Dizzy Dee has had his fair of challenges, but he is convinced that he will overcome some of them. I think the industry lacks support from fans, maybe it s the expensive data bundles that make it hard for our fans to keep in touch with us on social media. Other than that I think I am doing quite well and this year is going to be a big year for me, he said.Dizzy Dee was born in Zimbabwe and spent his early adulthood years living in Australia.Due to his multicultural upbringing he developed diverse musical references over the years which are expressed in his brand of organic, roots reggae music mixed with hip-hop, Afro beat and rhythm and blues elements. I think my major break came in 2014 with a single titled Never See We Fading featuring Jamaican reggae star, Torch. It was an ABRA Records release that attracted major labels. VP Records then approached him in 2015 and he signed with them a distribution deal in 2016 through VPAL Music.Through this feat, he joined the likes of StoneBwoy and Patoranking as one of the few African-born reggae artistes signed to the label along big names such as Gyptian, Sean Paul and Beres Hammond.Dizzy Dee has also done some works with musicians and producers from Jamaica, Romania, Canada, USA, Germany, Australia and Vanuatu to create a contemporary reggae/dancehall infused body of work that aim to crossover and introduce him to new markets also showcasing his progression since the release of his critically acclaimed single Never See We Fading .Other noteworthy collaborations on the EP are Overcome featuring Beniton, Stay Focused with German songstress Saral ne and Wake Up and Live featuring fellow Aussie Reggae artiste Jah Tung and Vanuatu sensation Tujah also made the cut.More recently Dizzy Dee has toured with Judgement Yard on their maiden tour of Australia, apart from playing at some of Australia s major festivals such as Womad in South Australia, Fringe in Western Australia, Rainbow Serpent in Victoria, Strawberry Fields in New South Wales and Island Vibes in Queensland.