Tawanda Marwizi Arts Correspondent Australian-based musician Nyarai Tsododo Takayidza believes her debut album Nzvimbo Yekuhwanda to be launched next month will inspire a lot of people. The 35-year-old engaged the services of a UK based studio Healing Hands Studios that has been instrumental in recording all gospel artistes based there. I am a passionate worshipper who does not shy away from expressing my passion and love for God at any given opportunity, she said.Takadziya said she began her career at the age of 13 and was passionate about music. Singing was just in me and at the age of 13 I was already penning songs. I did not have the chance to record my songs since I was young and parents were passionate about my education, she said.According to her, life was not rosy and the challenges she faced inspired her to be a worshipper and pen some songs. I give credit to the challenging times I went through whilst growing up. I was raised by my mother, who was estranged from my dad. Life was not easy in those years as it was a challenge for my mum to put food on the table, and my father was out of the picture, she said.In those hardships she discovered that song writing was one of her most treasured gifts she used as a vehicle to encourage, inspire and teach the message of hope, truth and love. I pray that denominational barriers break down, believers unite and people access the simplicity of the gospel. This is evidenced in one of the songs on my first album Nzvimbo yekuhwanda (Hiding Place), she added.She said most of the songs remind people that God provides shield for them. I called this album Nzvimbo yekuhwanda (Hiding place) because most of the songs on the album talks about God as a strong tower, as a shield, as one who fights our battles and also talks about the benefits of dwelling in his presence, she said.She hailed Healing Hands studios for their passion to keep and encourage all the artistes. My connection with my producer Mr Enoch Kamhiriri of the Healing Hands Recording Studio was just a divine encounter. I met him at a time where I was contemplating to let go of the dream to record my music, as the wait and the search for a potential producer was starting to take its toll on me, she added