Richard ChihoroGrace Chingoma: Senior Sports ReporterDYNAMOS team manager Richard Chihoro says they are eager to collect an early trophy and have targeted rivals CAPS United in the ZNA Army Charities semi-final showdown at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. The Glamour Boys, who were not active on the market, have been quietly going about with their pre-season business by assembling a youthful squad after losing some of their big names during the-off season.But the new-look DeMbare fired some warning shots last weekend by coming out with a positive result in Mozambique in an international friendly against Chingale Tete.Chihoro says all the players have been working hard in training and are motivated for the Harare Derby. We are aiming for silverware. We want to make our supporters happy this season and this should start with winning this Cup, said Chihoro. This season people will see the rebirth of Dynamos starting with these Cup games. We have prepared thoroughly since we returned from Mozambique. We started training on Tuesday and everything is in order. The veteran manager feels the weekend s game presents them with a perfect chance to assess how the fresh blood, which is being injected into the team, will fare in front of their demanding fans.Dynamos mentor Lloyd Mutasa has fused new faces with the likes of Emmanuel Mandiranga and Cleopas Kapupurika being blended with experienced players such as skipper Ocean Mushure, Denver Mukamba and Elisha Muroiwa.The club boasts of an array of youthful players as Peace Makaha, Wisdom Mutasa and Takunda Sadiki who are showing strong signs of flourishing this season.So far, they have assembled a squad of 28 players.Chihoro said they are still looking at adding one or two players to complete their squad for this season.There haven t been big acquisitions with the former champions opting to go for youth.But skipper Mushure earlier this week said the technical team have set up a formidable side that will compete this season.The veteran defender said they want to use the pre-season Charity Cup to make a big statement about their pedigree. I can assure our fans that a good team is being assembled and on Sunday the fans will have the first glimpse of their team, said Mushure.However, CAPS United who have already warmed up this season by featuring in the Champions League where last weekend they progressed to the first round. It is a very important game, it is a big game for us. There are no friendly matches whenever we play Dynamos, said CAPS United assistant coach Fungai Tostao Kwashi. It is always war, so I know Sunday s game would be war, no-holds barred action. And they want to kill us we want to kill them as well. We respect them, they are a big institution, we are a big institution so it is like Goliath versus Goliath. The champions would also want to use the game as part of their preparations for their first round showdown against TP Mazembe on the weekend of March 10 to 12.The Green Machine laboured to a 2-1 home victory over Lesotho champions Lioli last week.And Kwashi believes they are still work in progress. We are really humbled as champions of Zimbabwe, we are still learning and trying to improve. We are still work in progress, he said.