Takemore MazuruseLifestyle Reporter Respected business, media and arts player, Zimbabwe Business and Arts Hub (Zibah) Valentine s Ball held at Rainbow Towers VIP lounge lived to its billing with delegates being treated to good music, good food and nuggets for successful careers and relationships from the guest speakers. Guest Speakers George and Lisa Munengwa from ProAir International were the toast of the day giving some moving nuggets and advice on how to seek excellence in business and how best to manage marriages and relationships. Love is indeed a beautiful thing and if managed right it has a bearing on how we fare in various businesses and career pursuits. If not well managed however, it can become our bane. There is room for everyone to excel as long they take their daily steps to destiny but as we celebrate love, it is important that we manage our relationships right, the duo concurred.Zibah chairman Takemore Mazuruse thanked all those who took time to grace the well-organised event and highlighted that they were happy with the outcome and will be hosting such Valentine s Balls annually. Zibah is about excellence be it in business, careers or even relationships. We are encouraged by the turn out and the quality of this event. It is always important that people get value for money and from the feedback I can tell that we all derived value from this engagement. I also take this opportunity to thank our sponsors from JanJam, Kitchen-Link, ProAir International, Impressive Signs, Esteem Communications, Impressive Signs, Wheel and Ease (Wezhaz) Bar and Club Joy Centre Entertainment for the support. Such synergies between the business and arts sector are important. We are actually going to have this event annually and this time taking it to places like Victoria Falls or Nyanga in celebration of the beauty of the motherland, he said.The event was graced by prominent business people among them Zibah Treasurer and Nash Paints CEO and Founder Tinashe Mutarisi, Zibah Vice Chairman and Commodity Broker Exevia Maoneke, entrepreneur Teddy Kanyati, musician Andy Muridzo, music producer and gospel musician Forward Mazuruse, musician and Zibah secretary Edith Weutonga, filmmaker husband Elton Mujanana, radio and TV personality Nyaradzo Makombe, Star FM producer,presenter Siphatisiwe Mpofu as well as other media personnel and artists among others.Afro-fusion star Mbeu and The Mhodzi Tribe real name Ashton Nyahora back to back with afro-jazz songstress Myrah Dube provided top-notch entertainment for the delegates as they danced the night away.