LONDON. Wayne Rooney has offers to go to China but is unlikely to leave Manchester United before the Chinese transfer window closes on Tuesday, Sky sources understand. Rooney s advisers have been approached by several Chinese Super League (CSL) clubs who are willing to make him the world s best-paid player.The clubs include Chinese champions Guangzhou Evergrande, who are managed by Felipe Scolari, and Beijing Guoan, who finished fifth in the CSL last season.On Tuesday, Jose Mourinho failed to guarantee Rooney would stay at Manchester United until the end of the season.Rooney was given the green light to leave Manchester United once he surpassed Sir Bobby Charlton s goalscoring record.Eclipsing Charlton as United s all-time leading scorer was the only hurdle to overcome before Rooney could begin to call time on his glittering Old Trafford career.After 549 appearances, 250 goals and having won every honour in the English game, Rooney s United career is effectively over, his place in the club s rich history assured.With the 31-year-old struggling to be fit for Sunday s EFL Cup final against Southampton, Rooney may have already played his last game for United.United executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward has given Rooney s agent Paul Stretford the go-ahead to secure his client a lucrative move to the Chinese Super League.Tianjin Quanjian boss Fabio Cannavaro has confirmed an approach has been made for Rooney.But the Manchester United legend is not the Chinese Super League side s first choice.With transfer deadline day in China on Tuesday, United s 4-0 FA Cup win over Wigan on January 29 could ultimately turn out to be the last time Rooney pulled on the famous red shirt.A United insider said: Nothing could happen until Wayne beat Sir Bobby s United goal-scoring record. We all knew that once he d beaten that, the time would come to review his career here. Everything remains totally amicable. We are well aware of what Wayne has done for the club and he appreciates the career he s had here. But sometimes it s best for all the parties concerned to look at where we stand and plan a way forward that works for everyone. Charlton s United record had stood since his retirement in 1973. Charlton, now a director at Old Trafford, presented Rooney with a trophy to commemorate his record-breaking achievement. Ironically, that salute came before Rooney s last starting appearance at Old Trafford against Wigan.Remarkably, United will be able to claw back the 27million they paid Everton for Rooney back in 2004, with Chinese clubs willing to pay around 30m to lure him.Rooney will be able to command a weekly salary in the region of 750 000-a-week in the Far East, which is more than double his current salary at United. Sky Sports.