Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter GIFT Umbro Muzadzi has rebranded his look, shaving the dreadlocks he has carried for 23 years.For many people, this will be as big a shock as it was to his children, who were all born after their father started locking his hair. For Muzadzi s first born, Tafadzwa, who is now 21 years and his siblings Rutendo (19) and Tashinga (11), January this year was the first time they saw their father with the new look. I started growing my locks long back. My kids had never seen me without locks and this was their first time to see me in this hairstyle, said Muzadzi. I am getting old and at times you just need a mature look. It appears Muzadzi is mellowing with age. His recent decisions all point to a more mature person than the fiery goalkeeper, who had a penchant for bouncing the ball off the post after making a save. The former DeMbare goalkeeper s coach left the Glamour Boys to join Ngezi Platinum last month.The dreadlocks had become synonymous with the former Warriors goalie. At times I used to cut them so that they don t get too long. It must have been around 1993 or 1994 thereabout when I started growing the locks, I was still in the Young Warriors team back then. But since January, when I cut off the locks, I have got used to the new hairstyle. I doubt I will grow them again. The barber initially refused to cut them insisting that I should continue with them. It has been a life time with this hairstyle. But I believe there is a time for everything, said Muzadzi.The coach is enjoying his life at Ngezi. Some things will change but football will always remain football. It s a new set-up and I hope I will contribute a lot considering the experience that I also have in football, said Muzadzi.He has worked at clubs like Triangle and Eagles as a goalkeeper s coach and was also Tonderai Ndiraya s assistant coach at Dynamos.Ndiraya believes in his assistant. Gift is a very valuable member of the technical department. The reason why we brought him in is because of the experience he has amassed over the years, obviously locally and internationally. &nbsp;