 And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife . . . Genesis 3:17 How far you go in life is always determined by the voice that you choose to listen to. Your speed, destination and how long you are going to stay there is always decided by the voice that you choose to listen to. Your success and prosperity is again decided by the voice you choose to listen to. If you want to be honest with yourself, looking at where you are now you might have been carried by the voice you listened to. The voice you believed have brought you to a place where you are now.What we are witnessing from the scripture we have read is a very interesting story about our grandparents who lived in a very luxurious place created for them by God to enjoy. They lost the place because of the voice they chose to listen to. The garden was created by God and given to them so that they would simply enjoy. Right from the beginning, God had always wanted His people to enjoy. That is His heartbeat and His mind.If you want to know the mind of God you look at what He is doing.God created the garden with an intention for His people to enjoy and be comfortable. What He created for man in the Book of Genesis is not hell, but a garden which means if man finally finds himself in hell, it was not God s original intention. Something totally different from the voice of God is what carries man into hell.What God created for man is Eden which means luxury, joy or pleasure. Man was given a condition by God on how to stay in the garden. There was an instruction that was supposed to be followed as long as man would want to stay in that comfortable place. Man was supposed to listen to the voice of God to continue enjoying what God had created for him. The man was told what to eat and what not to eat which were instructions on how to maintain the blessing God had given him.There are instructions on how to maintain anything that God has given to you. One day there was another voice that came in the garden, Lucifer came and spoke to Eve. In trying to have a conversation with the serpent the woman fell into a very serious lie and deception. She ended up eating what she was not supposed to eat. She then took the same fruit of the tree and gave it to her husband and he also ate.After eating they both realised that they were naked. The next time they heard the voice of God walking they went and hid themselves. And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden. Genesis 3:8. They heard the voice of God walking because His voice is mobile.God Himself does not change, but He can say something today different from what He said yesterday. They did not see the voice walking, but they heard and they could tell that it was moving as it was talking. It is important for you to understand that the voice that you choose to listen to will determine where you end up in life.After God came when Adam had eaten the fruit, what He really complained about was why Adam had listened to his wife as if these people were not supposed to listen to each other.It was because, on this particular subject Adam had a voice that had already given him an instruction and the voice was superior to the voice of his wife. Adam decided to listen to the voice of his wife which is the voice that managed to bring him down because it is the voice you choose to listen to that determines your future.As Adam, you remain in the garden as long as you listen to the voice of God and you are kicked out of the garden the moment you choose to listen to a strange voice.The ground was also cursed for Adam s sake because of the voice he had listened to. God did not say Eve was not supposed to speak, but Adam was not supposed to listen.All the voices around you let them speak, they are entitled to speak, but you are not permitted by the heavens to listen. Let them say what they want to say, but you are not permitted by God to listen. Eve was not really judged for talking, but Adam was judged for listening to what she said. Allow them to talk about you, let them despise and undermine you, but you are not allowed to listen to what they are saying.The day you will listen to what they are saying your future is decided by their voice.Who have you chosen to listen to? That person is going to decide where you will end up in life. There are only two sources where voices come from, the voice of God and the voice of the devil. Besides these two voices, other things and people can also speak, but when they do they represent either God or the devil.Any voice that you hear is coming from these two sources either God through that person or the devil through the person.Understand that people and situations speak, but they have a source. What you go through in life is a statement. Everything that happened to Job; children dying, cattle dying and everything around his life, that was not just an issue of things dying in his life, but it was a statement. There is a message that the situation was trying to convey to Job about the faithfulness and love of God.What you are going through can become a voice especially when you go through problems over and over again. You can hear testimonies from other people of how God delivered them from that same situation and yet you have been stuck in that situation for years. It is not all about that situation, but what it is saying against the faithfulness of God.Do not listen to the voice of the situation, but listen to the voice of God.https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwahttps://twitter.com/prmakandiwahttps://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwaHelpline:+263 4 339 341[email&#160;protected]