Noel Munzabwa:Sports CorrespondentTHE ongoing CAF A course in the capital provided more than just football technical expertise when participants were allegedly involved in a physical scuffle at the weekend. The second phase of what began in January as the ultimate training exercise of top coaches was tainted by a physical scuffle involving Swazi-based participant, Lazarus Magaya.The coach was accused of sabotaging the entire Ngezi Platinum technical department on Saturday after the CAF Confederation Cup tie in Harare which the Mhondoro miners won 1-0.Magaya is alleged to have questioned the pedigree of the Ngezi coaches, when speaking with the club s officials and other coaches felt his conduct was unprofessional. Magaya went to the Ngezi Platinum directors and told them ibhora rudzii ramuri kutambirwa imi muchibhadara ma coach mari yakawanda kudaro, ini ndinga kutambisirai bhora rakanaka mukandipa basa, sources said. This was heard by most of coaches who didn t approve of the embarrassing behaviour. In the process a scuffle ensued involving Magaya, Ezekiel Mutoda and other coaches and at one moment he (Magaya) threatened to beat up Newsome Mutema (the Soccer Coaches Union of Zimbabwe secretary-general). What s so embarrassing is that the drama was witnessed by some ZIFA officials. The participants had gone to the National Sports Stadium for match assessment as part of the component of the course and watched Ngezi Platinum beat the outfit from Mauritius 1-0 sealing a 2-1 aggregate win.It is further alleged that conveners almost expelled Magaya and two other unnamed participants before it was decided the matter should be swept under the carpet. Magaya is now at Swazi MTN National First Division outfit, Mbabane Citizens, after a nomadic nine-month spell which started at Malanti Chiefs before taking him through Ludzeludze Brothers. What kind of a person is he? We hear he is fond of back-biting other coaches like Herbert (Maruwa) and Julius (Chakupewa) at Green Mambas (Mamba) and (Manzini) Wanderers among others? questioned one of the sources.Efforts to get a comment from Magaya were unsuccessful.Mutema said there was just a minor incident. It s not as you describe it, there was a minor misunderstanding which was resolved amicably. Perhaps your source just blew it out of proportion otherwise the course is progressing well and should be ending this weekend, said Mutema.