Dr MzembiIsdore Guvamombe Tourism Matrix The campaign to take over reigns at the United Nations World Tourism Organisation when incumbent Secretary General Dr Taleb Rifai, steps down in May, has gone full throttle. Zimbabwe Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Dr Walter Mzembi is battling it out with six other candidates for world tourism s biggest job, among them Mr Zurab Pololikashvili of Georgia, M rcio Favilla Lucca de Paula of Brazil, Mrs Gloria Guevara of Mexico, Mr Alain St Ange of Seychelles and Madam Dho from South Korea.This installment is on unpacking St Ange.Like any campaign there are always slanging matches as the rough turf of campaign turns slippery or hardens, depending on your stand point. But there is one person who has not only turned a spoiler or a sellout, for lack of diction.It is the unusual entrance of St. Ange of Seychelles, an island in Africa. Given that the. African Union endorsed Dr Mzembi as the sole African candidate for the UNWTO top job, it defies logic why St Ange has decided to break ranks with the African Union and play the villain. But listening to St Ange s interview with Richard Quest of CNN, you really forgive the white African, who gives the impression that he is European. Instead of dealing with real tourism issues and how he wishes to drive UNWTO to prosperity, he turned out to be a dog of war, with no respect for people and leadership of the continental body, the African Union in particular, and Africans in general .I felt pity for him as he blushed and rumbled on in a blatant lie trying to rubbish the AU for coming up with Dr Mzembi as the sole candidate. For starters Dr Mzembi was endorsed by AU in July 2016 in Kigali, Rwanda when President Itno of Chad was the chair of the African Union. It was never under President Mugabe s tenure as AU chair. What a liar?Honestly UNWTO does not need racist liars like St Ange. He is not credible. He does not respect protocol. He thinks he can operate in isolation. A man like him, will certainly take UNWTO down the abyss.St Ange, for his lack on intelligence or mere stupidity, claimed that he entered the race after being approached by some European countries to run for the top job. But if he was genuine, how would European countries approach an African form a very small island, and pit him against the bigger African picture and dream, that so having only Dr Mzembi as the sole African candidate.His country, being a member of AU is bound by continental statutes which he is unfortunately defying. In Rwanda last year, St Ange had the chance to challenge Dr Mzembi when the AU committee on candidature and international posting sat.He was nowhere to be seen and Dr Mzembi was thus endorsed. Compared to him, Dr Mzembi has the full backing of AU, Dr Mzembi has depth of character, intelligence and experience.St Ange is a liar and spoiler who does not deserve any place in any international organisation.At the UNWTO electoral college Africa has 10 votes,which Dr Mzembi as chair of the African commission could easily pocket and get a head start but St Ange seeks to divide the African vote, which is really avoidable. The risk if portraying his government and the entire Vanilla islands into direct confrontation with AU.