Shepherd Chimururi Cool Lifestyle Correspondent Ignorance on different types of e-learning is the greatest challenge inhibiting the growth of e-leaning in Zimbabwean schools in line with the revised curriculum. There are several factors to consider when choosing the right e-learning methods. Many schools are now transforming their educational delivery systems to the e-learning domain. But choosing the right methods for their school based on their needs is still a challenge. Choosing the right e-learning programs depends upon many factors like proper need analysis, target audience analysis, task analysis, topic analysis, and evaluation methods. Choosing the right delivery methods directly impact effectiveness and cost benefit for the school.There are many content types focused on e-learning. Those are totally based on the need analysis and the type of learners. The golden rule is that e-learning should have learner-centred content. In another words it should be relevant and specific to learner s needs, roles and responsibilities in professional life. This kind of content like skills, knowledge and all kind of learning media provided to keep the focus on learner s end.The content should be engaging. Instructional methods and techniques should be used creatively to develop an engaging and motivating learning experience.It depends upon developing the storyboard that has to be based on a very engaging way of learning programs.Frequent learner interaction is needed to sustain attention and promote learning. Scenario based learning is a good example for this kind of learning media. This is where the aspect of gamification comes in as it excites students.Self-paced courses should be customisable to reflect learner s interests and needs in instructor-led courses, tutors and facilitators should be able to follow the learners progress and performance individually.Many types of e-learning can be created with advanced development tools, which are suited to the needs of the modern workplace learners. There are various types of e-learning solutions that can be employed to train the learners. Choose the type that best suits the needs of the learner, keeping in mind the available technologies that would help them access e-learning methods. Offline e-learning solution are best suited for most of our schools which struggle in affording price of data bundles. The erratic speed is another issue as well.Self-study is the most common method which uses wiki, blog and any reading material like ppt, pdf files to offer the initial knowledge to the students. This also allows subject matter experts to the group of learners on the classroom training to resolve their queries and doubts.Video/audio tape is the second most common method to create demo video to train the learners. It also helps to create one way of learning assets which help the learner know about the basics by watching. Actually most students are visual learners.Computer-based training ensures that courses are made available to the learners in the form of a CD or a which can be run on the learner s system.E- courses can also be made available through Web-based training, which utilise the internet as a platform like a learning management system. The courses are self-paced, and the learner has no interaction with an instructor or fellow learners. This works very well for adult learners who are more motivated to learn, in order to learn new skills, update their resumes and attain professional excellence.The easy availability and affordability of mobile devices has created the space for mobile-enabled learning or mobile learning. Simply converting e-courses to mobile compatible modules is not enough. The capabilities of the mobile device, including disk space, internet connectivity, and the screen size has to be taken into consideration.The impact of social media is very strong and it can be utilised for corporate learning as well. More and more educational institutions are realising the true power of social learning and encouraging their employees to interact more within themselves and other like-minded people. Students collaborate and network on social platforms to discuss problems, queries, and experiences.Simulation e-learning is highly interactive and relies heavily upon graphics, video, audio. Importantly, there are often custom simulations videos or games, which could very well include 3D components.Games are considered to be fun by all, but they can be a powerful medium of experiential them to increase student productivity and knowledge by motivating them to learn with game-based academic activities. Such courses focus on creating engagement and motivation for the learners to learn the things while they play. Shepherd Chimururi &#8211; Executive Director Dzidzo Inhaka Audio Visual Learning. Mobile:+263 772 608 276 [email&#160;protected], www.dzidzoinhaka.co.zw