Riyad MahrezLONDON. Riyad Mahrez is on the brink of joining Arsenal. That s according to various reports which broke out yesterday morning. Arsene Wenger is also preparing to sanction a world record 125 million bid in order to tempt Monaco into selling Kylian Mbappe, according to the Sunday Mirror.The Arsenal manager is already on the verge of completing the club-record purchase of Alexandre Lacazette from Lyon but is keen to bolster his attack still further, especially given the uncertainty that continues to surround the future of Alexis Sanchez.Wenger reportedly will only sanction the sale of the Chile international if he is able to push through a deal for Mbappe, or if he can tempt Manchester City into a South American swap deal involving Sergio Aguero. But it is Mahrez who is reported to be already on his way to the Emirates Stadium.The Leicester star made it clear he wanted to leave the King Power after releasing a statement at the end of last season. And now, two separate reports claim a deal taking him to Arsenal is close to being done.Freelance reporter and BBC Sport contributor Dale O Donnell says he has been told there could be an announcement soon. He tweeted: Mahrez to Arsenal . . . official announcement expected this week. #AFC Elsewhere Italian site Calico Mercato separately say they have information that Algerian is Emirates bound. They claim Mahrez is a new player of Arsenal and also add that they expect it to be made official shortly.Mahrez revealed his plans to leave Leicester at the end of May. He explained: Out of the huge admiration and respect I hold for Leicester City I wanted to be totally honest and transparent with them and have therefore informed the club I feel now is the time for me to move on. I had a good discussion with the chairman last summer and we agreed at that time I would stay for another year in order to help the club as best as I could following the transition of winning the title and in the Champions League. However, I am fiercely ambitious and feel now is the time to move on to a new experience. I ve always enjoyed a good relationship with the chairman and everyone at the club, and I hope I have been able to repay the faith shown to me by my performances and commitment on the pitch during my time here. Meanwhile, Wenger will this week launch an incredible 125 million world record raid for Monaco star Mbappe. Mbappe is the hottest young property in European football and Arsenal boss Wenger will use his French connections to persuade the 18-year-old to choose the Emirates over Real Madrid and Manchester City.Wenger has spoken to Mbappe s father Wilfried who has been a huge influence in his son s career.He told Mbappe senior that if his son went to the Bernabeu, there is a danger he will be starved of first-team football &#8211; while at Arsenal he will be a regular first choice.And the Gunners boss will also go all-out to sign Mbappe s 30 million-rated team-mate Thomas Lemar. The 21-year-old is earmarked as the successor to Dimitri Payet in the France national team and it would put Theo Walcott s Arsenal career in jeopardy.But a deal for Lyon striker Lacazette seems far from done as the striker wants to join up with close friend Antoine Griezmann at Atletico Madrid.The pair are on holiday with their families in Los Angeles and are due back later this week. Atletico are currently banned from signing new players until the winter transfer window, but the Spainish giants could set up a loan deal with AC Milan for six months.Wenger will try to persuade him otherwise but has acknowledged that Lacazette has an ambition to play alongside Griezmann at club level.And Arsenal will not let Sanchez join Manchester City, it has been claimed. Sanchez (28) has one year left on his current 140 000-a-week Gunners deal.And Arsenal will tell Sanchez he will not be sold to Manchester City, meaning their pre-season is likely to be disrupted by the desire of the forward to join Pep Guardiola.Sanchez, who became Chile s record scorer last week and played in last night s Confederations Cup final against Germany, is set on a move to City but Wenger is determined not to repeat the mistakes of the past by selling to their biggest rivals.Now they have the financial strength to refuse any bid, they will tell Sanchez to join a foreign club, with Paris Saint-Germain favourites, or see out the final year of his deal, when he can leave on a free.The only situation which might change that stance is if Arsenal had paid 120 million for Monaco s Mbappe and needed to recoup some transfer funds; or, if, Aguero were made part of the deal, to replace him.But Sanchez s fourth season of tournament football through the summer with Chile means that he will not be arriving back in London until the end of July.There is little chance of the situation being resolved while he is on holiday. The Daily Star-The Mirror.&nbsp;