Prophet Makandiwa For God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. (John 3:16). There are different kinds of lives that can be lived and each life requires a certain type of faith. It is not one life that is lived by every living thing, there are different types of lives. In terms of continuity, each life is determined by a certain kind of faith that you apply towards it. Life is not one; there are different kinds and levels of life. There is a lower life, medium life and a greater life, which is above every other life.There is something God revealed to me which is very controversial and it even contradicts my former beliefs and my previous teachings. It is that the reason why we suffer as Christians and why we cannot enjoy the benefits of the cross is because we have given our lives to God.That is our number one problem. Every Christian who has given his life to God is in trouble and the trouble can never end because we started at a very wrong foundation. I remember many times during crusades I used to invite people to come and give their lives to Christ. When God told me it was wrong to do that I was ashamed and wondered how I was going to delete it from the minds of people who had heard me.God always talks to us and we need to repent at any given moment because revelation comes to us in phases. There is what the Bible calls the present truth meaning there is a truth that is present and there is a former truth. If you compare the former truth to the present truth it appears as if the former truth is a lie. We are growing and maturing in the word of God and we are discovering certain things.Each time we go through trials and problems that we seem unable to solve, we need to investigate our belief system if we believed the right thing. We need to find out if there is something wrong with the way we apply scriptures to our day-to-day lives. That is when you will begin to find out that there are things we believed that we should not have. The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. (John 10:10). Giving your life to Jesus Christ is a very wrong approach. We have a problem as Christians because we gave our lives to God. What we should have done was to come to God and receive life from Him.A Christian is not a person who has given his life to God but a person who has received life from God. That is the correct equation of salvation. You do not come to give life to Him but you come to get life from Him. That answers why we have most of the problems that we have.As Christians we are in some sense competing with Jesus. He has come that you might have life and have it in abundance. In that equation it is never you giving Him life, it is Him giving you life. The reason why we do not have the life He gave to us is because we never came to receive but we came to give.The Bible says: And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins. (Ephesians 2:1). If you were dead it means when you come to Him you do not even have a life to give. It then becomes wrong for us to say you come to surrender your life because you do not have a life; you come to collect life from Him. Salvation is never you giving God anything, it is God giving everything to you.When you hear that you have to believe it so that you can immediately begin to receive life from Him. Can that really change anything if somebody believes it? Yes it can change your life because you are simply a sum total of your beliefs.If I want to change your life I have to change what you believe. If what you believe is not changed then your lifestyle can never be changed. From today understand that you are never competing with Jesus. You are coming to receive from Him because He came so that we may have life in abundance.Jesus did not just come to give us life but life in abundance, it is an abundant life. That kind of life has to be chosen, you have to decide to live that kind of a life because it is given. In terms of the feeling that God has towards His Church, He is not really excited. Christians have been God s only let down. God is not happy when He looks at Christians because we have really disappointed Him. This is why I have titled this message Christ s mission that Christians made impossible .Before we talk about the mission we have to understand whose mission it was; Christ s. It is Christians who made it impossible. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. (John 15:13). This scripture is showing us the kind of love you can never find in people, so stop looking for this kind of love among people because no one has it. It is a love so great that no human being can have it.Love is not the same. When Jesus said that you have to love your enemies, what does that mean? (But I say unto you, Love your enemies . . . Matthew 5:44). The love He is referred to is different to what we think it is. I have had so many people who have got problems when it comes to praying against our enemies.Many people say that you should not pray against your enemies and you should bring them to God. They say all that we can do is to simply love them, which is very true but the love is different. There is a love that you love an enemy with. If you want to take the scripture to be literal then the devil also being your enemy has to be loved. Imagine listening to yourself saying I love the devil , what does that mean? That scripture requires some explanation.If you love your enemy with the same love that you love God with, how then is God going to know that He is not one of your enemies? If everyone should love his enemy, remember God is other people s enemy, which means they should also love God.Feedback: https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwa https://twitter.com/prmakandiwa https://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwa/ Helpline: +263 4 339 341 [email&#160;protected] mailto:[email&#160;protected] &nbsp;