Sports Reporter DESPITE being their debut appearance at the Netball World Youth Cup starting on Saturday in Botswana, national Under-21 coach Ropafadzo Mutsauki is targeting reaching the semi-finals of the competition. The team left for Gaborone, Botswana yesterday where 20 countries, divided into four pools of five, will compete for top honours. Zimbabwe are up against four-time champions Australia, South Africa, Barbados and Singapore in Pool B.Speaking on the sidelines of the team s send-off at the Ministry of Sport and Recreation offices in Harare yesterday, Mutsauki said he would want his side to make it into the last four. If I can make it to the semi-finals I will be happy. So what is important is to pull through the group stages. Right now the team is ready for the games and they are eager to play. We had good preparations, no injuries so far and I think everything is in place. We are just expecting results, Mutsauki.Their opening encounter is against Australia, who have won the tournament four times. Reigning champions New Zealand have won it three times and they are the only two countries that have won the Youth Cup since its inception in 1988. First game we are playing Australia and they have their own play and we have our own and we have never played each other before, so the fact that we do not know each other s play I think it s an advantage. What is important in a match is the centre pass. We need to utilise our centre pass, that s how you win matches, then fight to defend the opponent s, so if you take one that s how you win, said Mutsauki.The team qualified for the global showpiece last year when they came second behind South Africa in the qualifiers staged in Botswana. In a speech read on his behalf by acting permanent secretary in the Ministry of Sport and Recreation Benson Dube, Minister Makhosini Hlongwane said it s encouraging to see the girl child making great strides in sport. Such a level of representing Team Zimbabwe at international fora is crucial to the Ministry of Sport and Recreation s Brand Zimbabwe agenda through sport and recreation, this is in tandem with our Sport Diplomacy Programme, said Hlongwane.TeamMercy Mkwadi (captain), Patricia Mauladi, Sharon Bwanali, Nomagugu Makhalima, Chido Chiwenga, Sanele Ncube, Shalom Ncube, Michelle Muzanemhamo, Claris Kwaramba, Sharleen Makusha, Lynette Tanhira, Prisca Chinyama.