Chitungwiza municipalityLovemore Meya Herald Correspondent CASH-STRAPPED Chitungwiza Municipality is battling 129 lawsuits involving labour, civil and criminal cases worth over $7 million. Some of the labour cases were a result of failure to meet contractual obligations and unlawful dismissal of workers. Civil cases involve debts owed to various companies and interdicts for unlawful repossession of stands.This was revealed in the Department of Central Administration Services monthly report for the month of June presented during the caretaker council s meeting last week.The head of human resources, Mrs Mary Mukonyora, said the local authority risked losing its properties if urgent action was not taken. We have 45 pending civil and two criminal matters, she said. Council recorded an increase of seven matters during the month under review. Under industrial relations, there are 82 labour cases which are being handled and are still pending before the courts, arbitrators and or labour officers. An increase of one case was recorded. The majority of the cases are from employees whose contracts were terminated who have approached the Ministry of Labour suing council for either non-payment of salary arrears and terminal benefits or unfair labour practices. The most staggering case involves City of Harare which is suing Chitungwiza for over $7 million for non-payment of water bills. We have instructed our lawyer to enter an appearance to defend on council s behalf. An out of court meeting was held with the plaintiff (City of Harare) on June 20, said Mrs Mukonyora. Council has proposed to pay $35 000 per week starting July 1 until December 31, then for the parties to engage each other for the 2018 payment plan. We await to hear from City of Harare. In another case, Chitungwiza Municipality is being sued for $23 460 by Upset Investments (Pvt) Ltd after entering into a contract allegedly signed on February 15, 2014 for the hire of Lowbed, which was charged $600 per day for 34 days.Upset Investments (Pvt) Ltd also sued the ailing council $33 478,60 from a contract allegedly entered into in the same year for the hiring of a 22-tonne crawling excavator.Use of the excavator was being charged at $132 per hour. It was agreed that in the event of a breakdown, council would pay for the agreed charges.The excavator got stuck in the mud for 152 hours, totalling to $23 070, leading to the company incurring $10 405 for repairs.