Innocent Choga Fitness Stand up straight! This was a common command phrase that I used to hear when I was a primary school boy. This emphasis usually came from the physical training coaches. The phrase, Sit up straight! was common among the academic teachers. As one of the tall boys at school, I sometimes had to hunch my back and curl myself into insignificance, trying to blend in with others to avoid attracting attention that would result in me being called upon first to perform tasks or answer questions. These phrases also usually came from my parents whenever my siblings and I had to stand before them or whenever they saw us sitting improperly.I used to wonder what the fuss about standing up straight and sitting up straight was all about. Later on I got to know it was all about maintaining a good posture.The coaches also did this in order to earn good marks in the physical training competitions. The maintenance of a good posture is highly encouraged because it comes along with many physical benefits in the short and long run.There are similarities in the functions of the human body and that of the motor vehicle. The chassis and the body of a vehicle have to be strong and aligned in order for the vehicle to move well; with good aerodynamics.In the human being the maintenance of a good posture helps align the skeletal structure and muscles, and this helps us to carry our bodies with ease during the execution of daily chores, and when exercising or participating in sports.This enables athletes to perform to the best of their abilities without experiencing glitches.The maintenance of proper posture in all body movements will also determine the condition of our physiques when we get older; whether we are going to be nursing dislocations, muscle aches, arthritis, back pains and so forth.Body alignment means maintaining the skeletal structure in the correct position, having the right amounts of flesh in the right places and moving the body as it was naturally meant to move; in a manner that will not cause imbalances. So it is all about physical balance.Misalignments can be avoided at times as they can be due to lifestyle habits or can be caused by poor form during exercise and sporting activities.Sometimes we have no choice and there is nothing we can do about it because they can be caused by accidents. Naturally we are born with misalignments, but they vary in the degrees. As human beings we are all imperfect in built.A closer scrutiny in those perceived have perfect bodies will reveal that they have near perfect physiques. We all have flaws, minor or major. It is ideal to know your situation and correct where possible or devise how best to train or perform around them.Misalignments are drags that restrict or oppose the natural movement. A motor vehicle that does not have good alignment experiences increased wear and tear and consumes more fuel because it moves in a difficult way. Similarly, an individual with misalignment also uses more fuel than naturally required when moving around, inefficient movements divert energy.Motor vehicle wheels that are not properly aligned will face out or in. Apart from increased fuel consumption the dragging wheel tyres facing the wrong direction will wear out faster or even burst.Most of us have feet that toe out or in, these do not face the direction the body is moving towards and therefore are drags. My feet are toe outs when I walk, but when I am running they naturally become aligned; they tend to face the direction the body is going. This is necessary because a body that is not properly aligned is prone to injuries so it is necessary to be aware of this when exercising.This therefore means that people with physical challenges use more energy to complete tasks.Despite the massive outlay of energy the body adapts and finds ways and means to do tasks. People with challenges can use exercise to try and correct or minimize anomalies where possible.When we exercise we have to know how to get around the limitations and know what we can and cannot do and what alternatives are available.There are some exercise that you just have to substitute, some you have to do with caution and some you just have to avoid totally.The bodies adapt to the situations we expose them to and will become fixed to the usually preferred position. Adopting a proper posture reduces the stress on tissues that join the muscles to the bones, the ligaments and tendons.Alignment therefore, prevents the wear and tear of the bone surfaces ligaments and tendons.It helps us to breathe with ease in a relaxed manner. Body alignment enables exercisers and competitive athletes to excel in performance through perfect body movement.A poor posture is also attributed to lack of confidence and energy. It is also attributed to stress, depression and other negative mental states.It does not matter how tall one is, but by standing tall, walking tall, sitting upright or posturing to use a single term, one exudes confidence and strength.This body language tends to display that everything is alright. Orators and performers cannot ignore this as it adds some pizzazz to their oratory skills and performances. Innocent Choga is a six time National Bodybuilding Champion with international experience. He is studying for a science degree in Physical Education and Sport