Tonderai NdirayaEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter The Ngezi Platinum camp has been rocked by injuries ahead of their Castle Lager Premiership clash with sister club FC Platinum at Baobab this afternoon. The Mhondoro miners will miss the services of captain Partson Jaure, Walter Mukanga, Edgar Tapera and Terrence Dzvukamanja.However, their coach Tonderai Ndiraya yesterday said they are still looking forward to maintain the bragging rights after they thrashed the same opponents 3-0 in their last meeting in the Chibuku final at Baobab last year. These are two teams that share many things in common and obviously you would expect the rivalry to be stiff. With our backgrounds, no team wants to lose this match. FC Platinum are more of our sister club and the fans here always look forward to the matches against them. It s probably the biggest game here after Dynamos and CAPS United. Because of that we expect a very tough match. Also considering that FC Platinum lost heavily when they last played here in the Chibuku Super Cup, they will obviously be coming here with that in mind, which makes it interesting, said Ndiraya.Ngezi will be without their former skipper Liberty Chakoroma who is currently at the COSAFA Castle Cup tournament.The Ngezi side have failed to win in their last four matches.Their opponents are the only side unbeaten after 15 games. We have not done as we would have wanted in the last four games, but we take that as one of those bad phases, which is normal in football. But the good thing is we have done so well to date this season and we are working very hard to bring that phase to an end. We are not intimidated by FC Platinum s unbeaten run. If anything it s a motivation for us because we would want to be recognised as the first team to beat them this season, said Ndiraya.FC Platinum coach Norman Mapeza was upbeat ahead of the trip.Mapeza said he will not rush to field new signing Takesure Chinyama. We have been in the league for the past five years I think and this is our sixth. They have been here since last year so the pressure is on us because of the years that we have been in the league. It s not about bragging rights. They are sister companies, but it s football at the end of the day. I think it will be a good game of football. We hope come end of day on Saturday the better team will be going home celebrating, said Mapeza.FixturesToday: Tsholotsho v Triangle United (Dulivhadzimo), Ngezi Platinum v FC Platinum (Baobab),Chapungu v Chicken Inn (Ascot), ZPC Kariba v Black Rhinos (Nyamhunga),Tomorrow: Highlanders v Yadah (Barbourfields), Shabanie Mine v How Mine (Maglas), Harare City v Hwange (Morris Depot), Bulawayo City v CAPS United (Postponed).