Zimpapers Group public relations and corporate affairs manager Ms Beatrice Tonhodzayi (right) receiving an award from Federation of Disabled persons in Zimbabwe chairperson Mr Watson Khupe (seated) in Harare yesterday for the group s efforts in promoting rights of disabled persons. Looking on are Ms Debra Tigere, Senator Nyamayavo Mashavakure and Mr Taurai Kadzviti. Picture by John ManzongoNyemudzai Kakore Herald Correspondent The Herald has reaffirmed its position as Zimbabwe s number one daily after it yesterday received the prestigious Private Sector Disability award for its commitment in championing disability issues. The Federation of Organisations of Disabled People in Zimbabwe (FODPZ) presented the award at a ceremony held in Harare.The Herald, under the Zimpapers stable, has been dominating media awards and maintaining its Super Brand status for seven consecutive years.Addressing delegates at the hand over ceremony of the award, FODPZ chairperson Mr Watson Khupe said the award was an appreciation of Zimpapers role in highlighting the rights of persons with disabilities.Mr Khupe called on Government to expedite the enactment of the National Disability Policy, as well as the formulation of the sign language Bill as this would create a platform in disability inclusiveness, be it at district, provincial or national level. We will continue to lobby Parliament to amend our country s Constitution so that there will be 10 senatorial and parliamentary seats for persons with disabilities for each of the 10 provinces, he said. Let me quickly state that including persons with disabilities as part of the delegates to participate at pro-disability rights meetings taking place outside the country is a noble idea and must be taken serious by our colleagues with disabilities. Such opportunities must not be viewed as an achievement for personal glory on the part of our disabled people. Mr Khupe called for funding so that their operations run smoothly in championing disability issues.Zimpapers group public relations and corporate affairs manager Ms Beatrice Tonhodzayi said the firm was humbled and excited about the recognition from FODPZ.She hailed Zimpapers for giving space to columns that made a difference in people s lives such as speaking out on issues like HIV and Aids, as well as disability matters.Ms Tonhodzayi said by doing so, the company was giving back to the community. We are honoured as Zimpapers to be receiving this award, she said. As a media organisation, one should pride themselves in being fully inclusive. We have had issues from different groups who feel marginalised and sidelined which we have been covering. We are happy that our efforts are being noticed. 