President MugabeFrom Tawanda Mangoma in CHIREDZI The Teachers Union of Zimbabwe (TUZ) yesterday said it will mobilise teachers to vote for President Mugabe in the harmonised elections next year as a token of appreciation for the good work he has done for the country s education sector. Addressing guests at a graduation ceremony of 80 teachers, who undertook an Information Communication Technology course in Chiredzi, TUZ national organising secretary Mr Charles Chinosengwa said they would not behave like what other Western sponsored teachers unions are doing .Mr Chinosengwa, who is also the organising secretary of the civil servants APEX Council, said teachers were prepared to undertake dialogue meetings with President Mugabe whenever they had issues requiring his attention. We are not a union of demonstrations, we are not a union of street strikes, he said. Teachers Union of Zimbabwe is very happy with the leadership of President Mugabe. We want to assure him that as we go to 2018 he must relax because teachers are happy, especially with the journey he has taken us so far. Most schools now have electricity, we now have clean drinking water, we now have proper buildings and nothing can stop him from addressing whatever issues we might have because he has an open door policy. TUZ president Mr Timoth Tandi said teachers at most schools received computers and laptops from President Mugabe, but some of the gadgets were lying idle as they were computer illiterate. President Mugabe played his part, he said. Most schools received laptops and computers a decade ago, but they are now being damaged by rats because teachers are not literate in computers. Must we wait for President Mugabe to come and teach us basic computer skills or we must work as a union to empower our teachers with the modern computer skills? Chiredzi West Member of Parliament Cde Darlington Chiwa, who was guest speaker at the event, said teachers should embrace computer skills which were now part of the new curriculum.He said with most teachers being presiding officers during elections, it was wise for them to know computer skills as the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission would be using Biometric Voter Registration kits which were modern. Teachers, I am very happy that you are embracing technology, he said. Look, ZEC is now using the BVR kits for the 2018 elections and I doubt if they will accommodate presiding officers who are computer illiterate. We must move with time, lets embrace technology which is one integral part of the new curriculum. The graduation ceremony was also attended by Chiredzi South MP Retired Brigadier General Kalisto Gwanetsa, Chiredzi East MP Denford Masiya and Chiredzi District Administrator Mr Ndeya Nyede.