Paul Craig Roberts Correspondent For 16 years the US has been at war in the Middle East and North Africa, running up trillions of dollars in expenses, committing untold war crimes, and sending millions of war refugees to burden Europe, while simultaneously claiming that Washington cannot afford its Social Security and Medicare obligations or to fund a national health service like every civilised country has. Considering the enormous social needs that cannot be met because of the massive cost of these orchestrated wars, one would think that the American people would be asking questions about the purpose of these wars. What is being achieved at such enormous costs? Domestic needs are neglected so that the military/security complex can grow fat on war profits.The lack of curiosity on the part of the American people, the media, and Congress about the purpose of these wars, which have been proven to be based entirely on lies, is extraordinary.What explains this conspiracy of silence, this amazing disinterest in the squandering of money and lives? Most Americans seem to vaguely accept these orchestrated wars as the government s response to 9/11.This adds to the mystery as it is a fact that Iraq, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Afghanistan, and Iran (Iran not yet attacked except with threats and sanctions) had nothing to do with 9/11.But these countries have Muslim populations, and the Bush regime and presstitute media succeeded in associating 9/11 with Muslims in general.Perhaps if Americans and their representatives in Congress understood what the wars are about, they would rouse themselves to make objections. So, I will tell you what Washington s war on Syria and Washington s intended war on Iran are about.Ready?There are three reasons for Washington s war, not America s war as Washington is not America, on Syria. The first reason has to do with the profits of the military/security complex.The military/security complex is a combination of powerful private and governmental interests that need a threat to justify an annual budget that exceeds the GDP of many countries.War gives this combination of private and governmental interests a justification for its massive budget, a budget whose burden falls on American taxpayers whose real median family income has not risen for a couple of decades while their debt burden to support their living standard has risen. The second reason has to do with the Neoconservative ideology of American world hegemony.According to the Neoconservatives, who most certainly are not conservative of any description, the collapse of communism and socialism means that History has chosen Democratic Capitalism, which is neither democratic nor capitalist, as the World s Socio-Economic-Political system and it is Washington s responsibility to impose Americanism on the entire world. Countries such as Russia, China, Syria, and Iran, who reject American hegemony must be destabilised and destroyed as they stand in the way of American unilateralism.The Third reason has to do with Israel s need for the water resources of southern Lebanon. Twice Israel has sent the vaunted Israeli Army to occupy southern Lebanon, and twice the vaunted Israeli Army was driven out by Hezbollah, a militia supported by Syria and Iran.To be frank, Israel is using America to eliminate the Syrian and Iranian governments that provide military and economic support to Hezbollah. If Hezbollah s suppliers can be eliminated by the Americans, Israel s army can steal southern Lebanon, just as it has stolen Palestine and parts of Syria.Here are the facts: For 16 years the insouciant American population has permitted a corrupt government in Washington to squander trillions of dollars needed domestically but instead allocated to the profits of the military/security complex, to the service of the Neoconservative ideology of US world hegemony, and to the service of Israel.Clearly, American democracy is a fraud. It serves everyone but Americans.What is the likely consequence of the US government serving non-American interests?The best positive outcome is poverty for the 99 percent. The worst outcome is nuclear Armageddon. Washington s service to the military/security complex, to the Neoconservative ideology, and to Israel completely neglects over-powering facts.Israel s interest to overthrow Syria and Iran is totally inconsistent with Russia s interest to prevent the import of jihadism into the Russian Federation and Central Asia. Therefore, Israel has put the US into direct military conflict with Russia.The US military/security complex s financial interests to surround Russia with missile sites is inconsistent with Russian sovereignty as is the Neoconservatives emphasis on US world hegemony.President Trump does not control Washington. Washington is controlled by the military/security complex by the Israel Lobby, and by the Neoconservatives. These three organised interest groups have pre-empted the American people, who are powerless and are uninvolved in the decisions about their future.Every US Representative and US Senator who stood up to Israel was defeated by Israel in their re-election campaign. This is the reason that when Israel wants something it passes both houses of Congress unanimously. As Admiral Tom Moorer, Chief of Naval Operations and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said publicly, No American President can stand up to Israel. Israel gets what it wants no matter what the consequences are for America.Adm. Moorer was right. The US gives Israel every year enough money to purchase our government. And Israel does purchase our government. The US government is far more accountable to Israel than to the American people. The votes of the House and Senate prove this.Unable to stand up to tiny Israel, Washington thinks it can buffalo Russia and China. For Washington to continue to provoke Russia and China is a sign of insanity. In the place of intelligence we see hubris and arrogance, the hallmarks of fools.What Planet Earth, and the creatures thereon, need more than anything is leaders in the West who are intelligent, who have a moral conscience, who respect truth, and who are capable of understanding the limits to their power.But the Western World has no such people. &#8211; Counterpunch