Bishop B Manjoro Dunamis Today our discussion is on the king.I have a number of nuggets that I want to emphasise to make you think and act like a king. Here I mean real kings who are strong and lead people well.The main scriptural reference for this article is as follows:1 Samuel 17: 1-4 Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle, and were gathered together at Shochoh, which belongs to Judah, and pitched between Shochoh and Azekah, in Ephes-dammim. And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and pitched by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines. And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them. And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. 1. Kings have no fearDavid was a shepherd and he would spend most of his time in the bush.However, one day, his father sent him with food to his brothers who were part of the Israelite men facing the Philistines. Within the Philistines ranks, there was a huge man named Goliath whom all the Israelites soldiers were afraid of.Every morning Goliath would insult the army of Israel and challenge them to choose one man to fight with him. After Goliath s insults, all men of Israel would cower with fear and no one dared to face him in battle.However, when Goliath repeated his usual insults in the presence of David, the young man (David) was unmoved. He had faith in the Lord and didn t find any reason to fear.Take note that in 1 Samuel 16, we are told that David was anointed to be a king by Samuel and he was already thinking and behaving like a king &#8211; a fearless king.If you accepted Christ as your Saviour you don t have a reason to fear, but you need to have faith in Him. When you are in Christ you are governed by faith and not fear so you don t have a reason to fear the challenges in your life.2. Kings have determinationThe Bible tells us that before David, no one volunteered to fight against Goliath. It s pretty obvious that Saul had convinced his generals and other distinguished soldiers to fight against Goliath, but they refused. However, we see David offering himself to fight with Goliath. He couldn t stand the enemy mocking his people and His God.David s eldest brother, Eliab tried to dissuade him, but David answered emphatically, . . . is there not a cause? (I Samuel 17: 29). When there is a cause there is a reason to be determined.I always tell people about my experience with a City of Harare employee who told me that I m confused and that there was no way I would get the ground opposite City Sports Centre to construct our church.He tried all tricks for us not to get the land, but I was determined for God had told me that we shall build on that ground.I kept applying for it and our application was approved the third time. The area that I m talking about is now full of churches, but the council employee insisted that it was meant for a business complex.The place didn t become a mall of churches by coincidence but it is a product of persistent faith and determination. I want to advise you today that don t listen to negative talk, be determined and continue to press on.3. Kings have no poverty mentalityWhether in droughts and difficult situations, kings don t believe they are poor. If you are in the Kingdom of God, you should think like a king irrespective of your background.Even though you might come from a poor upbringing, in Christ you are a king. Even though you might not have money in your pocket, you are still rich in Christ.You need to tell yourself that I don t have money today, but check me tomorrow. Don t dwell on your past but focus on the Word of God which is full of promises to prosper you. And don t look down upon yourself because you are somebody.4. Kings speak positiveGoliath denigrated David, and said; Am I a dog that you come to me with staves? (1 Samuel 17: 43). The response of David was very positive. He said, You come to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to you in the Name of the Lord of Hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied (1 Samuel 17: 45).David talked about the Lord &#8211; that is the name above all names.He put the Lord in front and he was just an instrument of the Lord. In your life, put the Lord in front and declare it openly like what David did.When you declare the name of God, He will enable you to do great things. You should understand that it s not about money, but about the name of God.5. Kings are bornWhen you are in a kingship family, as soon as you are born, then you are also a king. If people know that you are the son or daughter of king Makoni for example, they change the way they greet and relate with you. You need to know whose son you are.You are the son of God.For those who received Christ, you were born again into the Kingdom of God and spiritually speaking you are in the bloodline of Christ. On your second birth you were born a king and you have a powerful presence and voice because you are a king.6. Kings don t give upIn 1 Samuel 30, the Bible tells us that when David and his men returned from military exploits, they found that the Amalekites had invaded Ziklag, burned it and abducted their wives and children.The men cried helplessly until they couldn t weep any more.They were extremely devastated.Sadly, most of the men shifted the blame to David their leader and they planned to stone him.But David inquired of the Lord. He didn t give up. When things are tight, inquire of the Lord. Don t give up because your answer is nigh.Keep knocking! If you fail try again. People of faith don t give up but they fight. If you were about to give up, I tell you it s just the beginning. Some young men secretly asked me why I still continue to fast, and I told them I still have a long way to go and I also need the anointing. Therefore, if you are after something, don t give up. Pursue it.7. Every king has a spirit that sits on himFrom my observation and studying of the Bible, I have come to realise that whatever kings do is inspired by a certain spirit.Things that we see have a spirit behind them but normally we just see the manifestation.When a king is anointed there is a spirit that sits upon him.The seven sons of Jesse were not chosen to be king, but David was elected. When the oil was poured upon David, the Bible says, And the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward (1 Samuel 16: 13). However, there are many spirits that are troublesome.We need to fight against evil spirits that follow bloodline.We need to defeat these spirits and allow the Spirit of the Lord to dwell in us, then we will walk and live like a king.You might have noticed that some people impart skills on others but their trainees would be promoted whilst they remain stagnant. Sometimes it s not because their bosses don t see their value but there are spirits that fight against their progress and these are the spirits they need to defeat.Due to the fact David had Spirit of the Lord, despite his weaknesses as a human being, the Bible tell us that he was a man after God s own heart (Acts 13: 22).Always remember that For with God, all things are possible. (Mark 10: 27).