Ellina Mhlanga in Nairobi, Kenya RISING star Vimbai Maisvoreva has described her participation at the IAAF World Under-18 championships as her best experience after coming sixth in the girls 800m at Kasarani Stadium, here yesterday. Maisvoreva ran 2minutes 12.79seconds to finish sixth as the five-day meet that attracted more than 800 athletes from 131 countries as well as an athlete refugee team came to an end.For the Zimbabwean, it was a good fight in an event dominated by Kenya with the hosts pair of Jackline Wambui and Lydia Jeruto Lagat claiming gold and silver respectively.Wambui won the race in 2minutes 1.46seconds, posting a World Under-18 leading time while Lagat was second in 2minutes 2.06seconds.They were followed by Hirut Meshesha of Ethiopia on third place with a time of 2minutes 6.32seconds and it was not much of a surprise as the trio went into the race as the favourites.Speaking soon after the race, Maisvoreva said although a medal would have been a dream come true, coming sixth was a great achievement . Today s race was tough. It was different from the first two races because everyone wanted to win a medal, so it was tough for me. But I really wanted to get a medal today. However, I am happy because not everyone can reach the finals like I did at this level and it gives me hope about the future. I believe my future in athletics is good because it s my first time to compete in such a big competition and for me to reach the finals is something great. I hope with the experience I got here I can do better in other competitions, said Maisvoreva.She graduates into the juniors next year, which is the Under-20. Coach Briad Nhubu was a happy man having one of his athletes from a seven-member team getting to the finals. I am very pleased because she has put up a brave fight and actually coming sixth in the world is a great achievement. I think with all these other competitions ahead of her, junior competitions and senior competitions, continuing working hard she will get there one day, said Nhubu.The team included Simbarashe Maketa, Donovan Mutariswa, Mascline Watama, Tapiwa Makarawu, Arage Mutombo and Alfred Chawonza.Most of them could not go beyond the first round while Chawonza, who competed in the boys 800m reached the semi-finals.Mutariswa and Makarawu took part in 200m while Mutombo competed in 800. Maketa and Watama were part of the 4x400m mixed relay team that included Chawonza and Mutombo.