Cuthbert ChitimaEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter CAPS United chief executive Cuthbert Chitima believes nothing is impossible as the Green Machine prepare for the match of their lives away to USM Alger this Sunday. Makepekepe are expected to leave tomorrow, should they secure seats on their intended route, for the must-win match. The Green Machine have been struggling to get enough seats on flights to Algiers and might be forced to fly to Rome, Italy, before connecting to their destination.The club s leadership yesterday threw their weight behind the team following the impressive performance in the 3-1 win over five-time African champions Zamalek at the weekend. Nothing is impossible. As things stand we have only one choice, which is to win. As you can see the permutations, a draw will not be enough. We only need to win that match and then we will not even have to care what happens in the other match, said Chitima. Makepekepe are currently sitting un third place in the group with six points to their credit while their opponents USM Alger currently lead the race with eight points. Libya s Al Ahli Tripoli are second with 8 points as well and they will travel to Egypt to face basement side Zamalek who have five points.Both matches will kick off at 9pm on Sunday night. Chitima said the win over Zamalek was the biggest motivation they needed. Abbas Amidu scored a brace in the match with Ronald Pfumbidzai also weighing in. You can see our boys are focused already. The way they performed against Zamalek was out of this world. It proved a point that they can do it, as long as they believe in themselves. No one had given these boys a chance ahead of the match against Zamalek but they punched above their weight and they came out with a famous victory. That in itself was a huge lift. It was a big confidence-booster even to some of the players and supporters who had almost given up on our chances in this competition, said Chitima. CAF have appointed top Senegalese referee Malang Diedhiou to handle the match. Diedhiou will be assisted by countrymen Djibril Camara and El Hadji Malick Samba.