Minister ChikukwaInnocent Ruwende Senior Reporter Government has urged private and public institutions to take advantage of the Memorandum of Understanding signed between Harare metropolitan province and the Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture of China, to meet the goals and objectives of the country s economic blueprint, Zim-Asset. Speaking at a business breakfast meeting aimed at informing the business community from Harare province on the MoU signed between the two provinces on Thursday, Minister of State for Harare Provincial Affairs, Miriam Chikukwa, said the Chinese were keen to do business in Zimbabwe, especially in tobacco, agriculture and tourism sectors. I visited China following a visit to our province by a delegation from the Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture, China, led by Governor Mr Li Jinghao in March this year, she said. Our discussion led to the signing of a MoU of friendly co-operation between the two provinces, of which article two of the MoU covered economy and trade, investment, tourism, culture, education and training and agriculture. I believe that this MoU will benefit both the public and private sector organisations and I would like to call upon all of you to take full advantage of this opportunity. Zimbabwe can benefit tremendously from working with companies from our all-weather friends, China, as it will ring about technological improvements. Minister Chikukwa said she was impressed with the businesses she visited in China, some of which would be sending their teams to Zimbabwe to explore business opportunities.Retired Brigadier-General Charles Wekwete, a director in the Office of the President and Cabinet, said incentives had been put in place to attract foreign companies and motivate local ones to go into Special Economic Zones. Such incentives include minimum leases of 50 years for investors utilising land and raw materials inputs, which include raw materials and intermediate products imported for use by companies set up in the Special Economic Zones which will be imported duty free, among other incentives, he said. Government has left the door open for investors to engage and negotiate. Sunway City marketing manager Mr Takesure Chimenya, who presented on the Sunway City Special Economic Zones, said the objective of the SEZ was to facilitate industrial development for the country and hence contribute to Gross Domestic Product growth. The Sunway City SEZ will, when completed, comprise of several sectors, he said. Amongst these are the High Tech Park, the General (Light) Industrial Park, the commercial park, the residential park, and others. Implementation will be done in phases, starting with the High Tech Park. 