Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter MWENEZANA Queens coach Regis Dimingo has promised fireworks this afternoon when his side take on Borrow Jets in the Zimbabwe Women Soccer League at Luveve. The league, which is fully sponsored by ZIFA, started two weeks ago after it had been affected by financial challenges. It s sad that we lost our best players during the beginning of the season but we have been working very hard to assemble a stronger squad that will fly the Mwenezana flag high. We finished sixth last season and our thrust this season is to go for the championship. We need a victory tomorrow (today) and winning is our major objective. We don t know much about Burrow Jets but I am promising fireworks. I am happy that we have started the season on a high note winning our two games and the one tomorrow must be our third, said Dimingo.The team has produced good players but they recently lost the services of a number of them to Harare City Queens who are in Division One and are coached by former national team coach Rosemary Mugadza.ZIFA have dismissed reports that the league was dysfunctional. We have noted with dismay, media reports that women football is dysfunctional. Such reports are false, baseless and without facts as the league is running smoothly. The league commenced two weeks ago and is fully funded by ZIFA, spokesman Xolisani Gwesela told the association s official website. The association, led by Dr Phillip Chiyangwa, values the development of women s football and the eventual emancipation of women through sport, therefore, it will never abdicate from its responsibilities. ZIFA urges those responsible for manufacturing and spreading such falsehoods to desist from doing so and instead, partner ZIFA in the developing and promoting women football. The Zimbabwe Women Super League is made up of 16 teams &#8211; Hearts of Oak, New Orleans, Street Set, Mufakose Queens, Borrow Street Jets, Mwenezana Queens, Conduit Academy, Blue Swallows, Cyclone Stars, ZRP Harare, Masvingo Queens, Inline Academy, Faith Drive Queens, Chipembere Queens, Zvishavane Pirates and Correctional Queens.Fixtures:TodayHearts of Oak vs New Orleans(Barbourfields Stadium)Street Set vs Mufakose (Barbourfields Stadium)Borrow Jets vs Mwenezana Queens( Luveve Stadium)Conduit Academy vs Blue Swallows ( Madoda Stadium)Cyclone Stars vs ZRP Harare (Harare High School)Masvingo Queens vs In Line Academy( Mucheke Stadium)Faith Drive Queens vs Chipembere Queens (Nyamahuru High)TomorrowZvishavane Pirates vs Correctional Queens(Kandodo Stadium)