NMB Bank has launched an online portal that allows customers to interface with the bank on social media to obtain information and assistance online.The bank now has a presence on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and WhatsApp for feedback purposes. NMB chief banking officer Lionel Chinyamutangira said existing and potential customers can now contact the bank using the online support portal. The portal enables customers to chat with a bank representative in real time or leave their enquiry. They can track progress on query resolution on the portal, he said. One can choose to be a once off user by simply logging in a query or be a regular user by signing up, which then gives one the added functionality of tracking status on query resolution. When the query has been resolved customers can rate how satisfied they were with the bank s response, he said.Chinyamutangira said the support centre also provided answers to a range of frequently asked questions which enable clients to obtain assistance fast. This portal allows customers sitting anywhere in the world to log in an enquiry with the bank and track progress on its resolution. It allows them to rate our service in query resolution, thus enabling us to service our clients better, he said.He said the bank attached importance to feedback from clients, as it enabled it to continuously improve its service and ensure it met their expectations. We believe we have a lot to learn from our clients by capturing their feedback on service experience. We therefore encourage all our stakeholders to get social with us through WhatsApp, Twitter, LinkedIn and Facebook, he said.He added that as part of the launch of the social media pages, the bank was offering an opportunity to win prizes to those who tagged 10 friends to like or follow its Facebook, Twitter, or LinkedIn pages.If all 10 friends liked the NMB social pages, then the person who tagged them was entered in a draw. Prizes to be won include HIFA 2017 tickets for two, NMB T-shirts, caps, tote bags and pens.There are 20 prizes to be won each day with the competition running from April 26 to May 26 this year. New Ziana.