Moses ChungaSports Reporter FOOTBALL stakeholders have praised CAPS United for a good show in which they fully utilised home advantage to beat USM Alger in a CAF Champions League Group B match at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. Former CAPS United coach Moses Bambo Chunga hailed the Green Machine. It is a great win considering we were playing at home. In this competition, we need to do well at home. The first half performance was a brilliant one, but in the second half we appeared to be losing it, but kept our composure. It is now important to maintain this and do well in the next fixture. It is tight at this level and there is need to utilise all the chances, said Chunga.Dynamos club president Kenny Mubaiwa was also on hand to praise his bitter rivals. When you are playing at home, it s good to collect maximum points so that going forward you don t have any pressure. So they have done themselves a huge favour and should continue doing so in the next game, he said.DeMbare fan and former Sporting Lions player Bothwell Mahlengwe said the club needs to continue working hard. Three points, it s good for them. They played well especially Fire, (Tafadzwa Rusike) but they have a lot to work on. There were a bit lucky at times as Alger also missed a lot of chances. They need to win another home game then force a draw somewhere, somehow, he said.Former CAPS United forward Alois Bunjira praised the boys for a good show. It was a good game. We played well, very composed, very tactical. Even when the Algerians changed their formation, it gave us a chance to score second goal. Well done to Tafadzwa, he made the difference today. The games are coming thick and fast and we need to maintain the momentum. Al Ahli Tripoli drew against Zamalek and that result is not bad for us. It s an unpredictable group and any team can win it. For us the group is wide open. It can be done. NetOne public relations manager John Nyashanu added that they were proud to be associated with the champions. The boys played their hearts out and duly deserved to win, which is why as NetOne we had long foreseen their potential and wanted their beautiful story to be told across the world by providing One-Fi to enable the multitudes of journalists to tell the story of CAPS United, said Nyashanu.