HOW TIME FLIES . . . This picture collage first shows Brazilian soccer legend Bebeto (left, centre) celebrating the birth of his son at the 1994 World Cup after scoring for Brazil and then the same child, Mattheus Oliveira (right), gives his thumbs up sign just after signing for Portuguese giants Sporting Lisbon at the age of 23. MailonlineLONDON. It was one of the iconic pictures of the 1994 World Cup soccer finals, as Brazilian striker Bebeto created the rock the baby celebration. Bebeto or Jose Roberto Gama de Oliveira had just put his country 2-0 up against Holland in the World Cup quarter-final, but the celebration is remembered far more than the game itself, a five-goal thriller.The player s wife had just given birth to their third child, and Bebeto wanted the world to know.Now, almost 23 years later, that baby is doing some celebrating of his own, after signing with Portuguese giants Sporting Lisbon.Mattheus Oliveira, the baby whose birth sparked the celebration, has joined Sporting from another Portuguese side, Estoril.A midfielder who likes to get on the ball and create, Oliveira was chased by several top clubs after an impressive two seasons in the country.But he opted for Sporting, where he signed a contract until 2022 with a huge release clause of 60m ( 51m). I chose the Sporting CP because of the greatness of the club, he told the Sporting website. I am very happy with this opportunity and I did not even think twice when the opportunity arose. Because of the history of this team and the players who have been here, I also want to create history at Sporting. Bebeto tweeted his delight at the news, writing So proud of you, son!!! Continue working hard and with humility you will go far!! Then you can enter into the history of Sporting!! Bebeto led the line for Brazil in both the 1994 and 1998 World Cups, alongside Romario in the former and Ronaldo in the later.He reached the final on both occasions, winning in the USA but beaten by hosts France in the second tournament.During his Brazil career he won 75 caps, scoring 39 times and winning medals at the 1988 and 1996 Olympics, as well as the 1989 Copa America title. Mailonline.