Oscar Rusenga in TRIANGLE TRIANGLE &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230; (0) 2HOW MINE &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230; 0 TAURAI Mangwiro heaved a huge sigh of relief after Triangle recorded their first home win of the season with a well-deserved Castle Lager Premier Soccer League triumph over How Mine at Gibbo yesterday.Despite goalkeeper Ronald Mudimu missing a first half penalty, the Sugar Sugar Boys finally found a way to win at home when they got their range in the second half. It was a game of firsts, it s a first home victory for us this season and also my first victory over How Mine ever since they were promoted into the Premiership and that makes this victory even sweeter. We did well in the opening minutes and it was unfortunate that our hero Mudimu missed from the spot, said Mangwiro. After Mudimu missed from the penalty spot, Triangle ensured full points through lameck Nhamo in the 51st minute and Raphael kawondera after 87 minutes.A home win has been elusive for the Lowveld based side and yesterday the Sugar Sugar boys collected maximum points against their former head coach Kelvin Kaindu who is now in charge of the Bulawayo gold miners.Triangle started the match on a front foot and almost drew first blood through man of the match Tendai Huwa who let go a ferocious shot just eight minutes into the match.The home side were then awarded a penalty in the 35th minute after How Mine defender Kudzai Chideu fouled Courage Denias inside his box and Harare-based referee Edward Mucharambeyi did not hesitate to point to the spot.Mudimu who is Triangle s penalty specialist, however, failed to beat his opposite number, Munyaradzi Diya.Kaindu then made a tactical substitution soon after that missed penalty when he pulled out Peter Moyo in the 37th minute bringing on Toto Banda. I think we had our worst game, we had our worst performance today, we were forced to make a first half substitution and immediately soon after half-time we had to make another substitution and the substitutes did little to change the game. We were treated unfairly by Triangle and I think its lack of professionalism, when they scored the goal we had only one ball in the game and the rest were hidden and that s not good for our football, lamented Kaindu.Triangle started the second half on a strong note and Diya was forced to make a point blank save off Nhamo s header in the 51st minute.Former Dynamos and Monomotapa man Russell Madamombe who played well alongside Brian Juwayeyi and Huwa was again the provider as his well taken corner kick in the 87th minute was arrowed straight into the net through the head of defender Ralph Kawondera.Nerfitary Ndale and Marvelous Mukumba played well for the visitors and both teams had a fair share of chances.Substitute Nqobile Ndlovu was wasteful in front of goals with his poor decision making.Teams:Triangle: R. Mudimu, R. Kawondera, R. Mhlanga, T. Huwa, G. Zhokinyi, B. Juwayeyi (D. Dzvinyai, 75th min), R, Madamombe, S. Makoni (B. Maglas, 68th min), K. Chigwida, L. Nhamo, C. Denias (T. Rukanda, 89th min)How Mine: M. Diya, T. Ranthokoane, B. Mbiriri, K. Chideu, M. Sakala, M. Mukumba, A. Muganyi (N. Ndlovu, 58th min), N, Ndale, G, Nguwodzawo, K. Musharu, P. Moyo (Toto Banda, 37th min).