Ellina Mhlanga Sports Reporter HARARE Province have set their eyes on the top spot when they host the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe s Inter-provincial track and field championships this weekend at the National Sports Stadium. The meet is slated for Saturday and Sunday with all provinces set to take part.The hosts came second behind Bulawayo last year.Harare Athletics Board secretary-general, Silas Muringani, is confident of successfully hosting the event that is also serving as a qualifier for those aiming for qualification for different international competitions. Our team of officials is ready as well as our team for the province. We are fielding at least two athletes for each event for the shorter distances and three for the longer distances. Some will compete in more than one event but we have tried to distribute our events so that each athlete gets a chance to compete. Last year we were second to Bulawayo, they hosted the event, so we have got a score to settle with Bulawayo. It s actually interesting, these are the two provinces that have been strong in NAAZ competitions, said Muringani.The meet is likely to provide some exciting competition with the juniors and youths seeking qualification for the African Junior championships and the IAAF World Under-18 championships in July.The seniors will be preparing for the regional championships from June 9 to 11.The national association had two groups of athletes competing in Zambia and Botswana last month to try and attain the qualifying times but for most athletes they are likely to take advantage of the local event.Muringani, who is also NAAZ director in charge of junior development, challenged the athletes to utilise the event as it might be their last chance to make the cut for the forthcoming international competitions. It s a very big opportunity for the junior athletes. This could be their last opportunity before we register them for the Algeria event. We had athletes in Botswana and Zambia and for those that didn t manage (to qualify) now is the opportunity particularly in the 100m and 200m and then the middle distances. I think there are some who can add a few metres in long jump, javelin and triple jump. We have some youths who can also qualify (for IAAF Under-18 World championships), those who missed the Cossasa championships, added Muringani.Harare province coaches co-ordinator, Collen Makaza, yesterday said they were still finalising their team. I am working on the team right now but I think we have the best athletes and we are going to field a full complement. We are going to have athletes in all the events. I believe we are going to win, being the hosts we have to produce good results. I have been monitoring most of the athletes during the JM Busha (triangular series) and two weeks ago we had a national track and field event, Makaza said.Some of the athletes the province are banking on include middle-distance runners Canisious Nyamutsita and Bertha Chikanga while for the sprints they are looking at Nigel Tom and Ngoni Makusha.