Miss Primary School models: Lillian (left) from Prospect Primary School was the 1st Princess while the Queen was Rachel from Hatfield Primary School and Ruvarashe (right) from Prospect Primary School was the 2nd PrincessCool Lifestyle Writer Teenagers from different schools were happy to be honoured in Mr and Miss Primary pageant that was held recently in the capital. The pageant was initiated by a local organisation Fearfully and Wonderfully Created an art organisation affiliated with the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe. Participants of the pageant were from the age of 5 to 13 years. The teenagers showcased traditional and sportswear and were asked several questions on the modelling competition that included who is their headmaster/ mistress, headgirl/boy and Minister of Primary and Secondary Education. All participants were given certificates of participation as way of appreciating their courage, confidence and discipline during the show.Lillian from Prospect Primary School became the winner while Rachel from Hatfield Primary School became the First Princess with Ruvarashe from Prospect Primary School becoming the Second Princess. Lillian was grateful to the organisers saying it was a way of exposing them to some of their careers-to-be. All teenagers in the country have wishes and we wish to use our talent to excel, she said. She added that they were excited to be involved in such a modelling show. Modelling is one profession that many of us wish to be in and we are happy that Miss Primary School has granted us an opportunity to do our best, she added. Ruvarashe was on cloud nine saying she wanted to be a professional model when she finishes her school. Modelling is my future career and I happy to be part of the event. My wish is to get engaged in such events on several times, he said. Mr Primary went to Honoured from Hallingbury School.He said it was an encouraging encounter having such a show. It is a good experience to be involved in a modelling show as man. I am very humbled by the experience, he said.Tungamirai Mpofu of Fearfully and Wonderfully Created said she was happy to be hosting events that act as guidance to the young stars. We need to expose them to such events so that they know if it is good for their future. We have several activities we will be doing with the teenagers, he said.