ShashlAt The Gallery THE National Gallery of Zimbabwe will on May 18 join the rest of the world in commemorating the International Museum Day. This day is an occasion to raise awareness on how important museums are in the sustainable development of society. It also provides the opportunity for museum professionals from different parts of the globe to meet the public and alert them as to the challenges that museums face in today s world. Museums are an integral part of society fostering means of cultural exchange, enrichment of cultures and development of mutual understanding, cooperation and peace among societies. The National Gallery of Zimbabwe is an art museum which has been open since 1957, documenting Zimbabwe s socio -cultural and political heritage from the colonial era to post-Independence through artist training, art exhibitions and its Permanent Collection of works. In addition, it has been central to the meteoric rise of Zimbabwean artists on local and international platforms.The International Council of Museums (ICOM) created International Museum Day in 1977. The organisation chooses a different theme for the day and coordinates the celebrations every year. Some of the previous themes include globalisation, indigenous peoples, bridging culture gaps and caring for the environment. The theme for the 2017 celebration is Museums and contested histories: Saying the unspeakable in museums .A Contested History discusses the historiography of Reconstruction that is the way that historians have remembered, written about, interpreted, and taught specific historical eras and events through the generations. According to the ICOM: Saying the unspeakable in museums looks at how to understand the incomprehensible aspects of the contested histories inherent to the human race. It also encourages museums to play an active role in peacefully addressing traumatic histories through mediation and multiple points of view.Scenes from single No More and video launch by rising musician Shashl at News Cafe, Borrowdale, recentlyHistory is a vital tool for defining a given people s identity, and each of us defines ourselves through important and fundamental historic events. These histories, which are often little known or misunderstood, resonate universally, as they concern and affect us all. Museum collections offer reflections of memories and representations of history.By mediating and expressing multiple points of view, museums play role in peacefully addressing traumatic histories, while still sharing knowledge of the past and giving it meaning to help us understand the world today. Museums therefore become tools for teaching universal values and help create a common destiny among different, peaceful geopolitical spaces.The 2017 theme of the International Museum Day highlights the significant contribution of museums in modern society. Museums must ask fundamental questions about society by providing critical tools which encourage reflection on issues of memory that shape it or tear it apart. Using a variety of museum methods and different tools for the critical appropriation and acceptance of the past and the establishment of a dialogue to help reconcile memories. Acceptance of a contested history is the first step in envisioning a shared future under the banner of reconciliation.In celebrating the International Museum Day last year, the National Gallery of Zimbabwe gave free vouchers to members of the public to gain access into the Gallery and interact with modern and contemporary art exhibitions on display. Generally museums in Africa have had a challenge in being able to attract local audiences as they are still regarded as a foreign concept. Through this the Gallery was providing an opportunity for the public to access the historic and cultural knowledge that is preserved in the Gallery, thus becoming a tool for teaching common values and cultural exchange for sustainable development and social cohesion.The International Museum Day 2017 coincides with the Tavatose/Sisonke Schools Annual Exhibition which will be officially opening at the Gallery on May 18. We are inviting schools and the general public to celebrate the International Museum Day with us. The festivities will start at 9am at the Gallery and will feature the opening and prize-giving ceremony of the Tavatose/Sisonke Schools Annual Exhibition Northern Region that is: Harare Metropolitan Province, Chitungwiza, Mashonaland East, West and Central. There will also be a tour of the running exhibitions including an exhibition of some works in the Permanent Collection, focusing on 18th century and mid-20th century artists as well as Zimbabwean contemporary artists. This is meant to address the requirements of students who will be sitting for their Cambridge exams which requires them to know local contemporary artists, said Mr Akim Nyakudya the Education Officer at the National Gallery of Zimbabwe. There will be entertainment from students such as poetry, dance and music and refreshments. Entry into the Gallery will be free for everyone, added NyakudyaThe Tavatose/Sisonke Schools Annual Exhibitionis brought by the Gallery in partnership with the Environmental Management Agency (EMA) under the theme Celebration Time! &#8211; With the environment in mind . Tavatose/Sisonke , meaning we are now together , is a show based on unity and brings pupils from different backgrounds together to express themselves through art. It is also based on developing a greater awareness of the importance of keeping the environment clean; developing awareness at an early age around issues of improper handling of waste and its risks to the environment and human health and awareness of how recycled waste can contribute to sustainable development.This exhibition is an open call to all students from pre-school to senior school to submit their artworks in relation to the theme. This year s exhibition seeks to promote creative talent from a young age and to celebrate our artistic heritage as well as the fact that there has been a greater motivation for art to be introduced and recognised as an imperative subject in schools.In addition, the exhibition encourages visual literacy among children whilst focusing on enjoyment and building confidence in their artistic and creative expression. Through this there is the hope that this will enhance entrepreneurial skills, creativity, problem solving and lifelong learning in art will also be enhanced. Members of the public and cultural institutions in Zimbabweshould join us and not miss out on an opportunity to be part of this day, as we celebrate International Museum Day and the official opening of the Tavatose/Sisonke Schools Annual Exhibition courtesy of EMA, said Nyakudya.The Northern Region Exhibition is scheduled to run from May 18-23 at the National Gallery of Zimbabwe, to pave way for the National exhibition which will run from June 3-20.