Norman MapezaPaul Mundandi in ZVISHAVANE DESPITE his team being the only side still to taste defeat in the Premiership, Norman Mapeza remains humble and maintains that the miners need to redouble their efforts when they host Highlanders in what promises to be an explosive battle at Mandava tomorrow. FC Platinum lie in third place with 19 points from nine matches and are three points behind leaders Ngezi Platinum but they have game in hand over their fellow miners.Highlanders, in fifth place, are also two points behind FC Platinum having played nine games. Although it might be early days yet in the championship race, with many games still to be played in the 18-team league, Mapeza knows all too well about the magnitude of an assignment against a team of Bosso s pedigree.Mapeza said his miners would need to be at their very best to withstand the challenge that will come from Highlanders. Highlanders are a big club. We respect them because they are a big institution and we are going to double our efforts. They lost to Chicken Inn (1-0) and they need a positive result. We are going to play for three points and it s an advantage to us because they are coming from a defeat. The most important thing to us is playing for three points and we are not going to be worried about scoring, said Mapeza.One factor that could work in the hosts favour is that Highlanders have not been very impressive on the road as they have won once and drawn twice.Bosso coach Erol Akbay is expecting a close contest at Mandava tomorrow. The game on Sunday is going to be very tight. Platinum are a good team so is Highlanders. We have beaten them before in the ZNA Charities and we are going to Zvishavane with the same mind set. We want to continue with our dominance over them and we are very much focused and we are more than ready to play them. We are playing very well but it s just that at times you need luck and it has been eluding us but we are coming back to our winning ways, said Akbay.Meanwhile, FC Platinum spokesperson Chido Chizondo has urged he team s fans to refrain from violence. We are playing Highlanders on Sunday and our appeal is for Pure Platinum Play fans to refrain from any violence, said Chizondo.