Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis Disease meaning dis-ease is something that disrupts order in the system, causing disharmony, discomfort or distress. It can be a physical system, mental or spiritual. This entails, therefore, the need for healing in one s life, in areas like emotions, marriages, relationships, businesses and finances.Today we will look at this non-physical side of sickness and how you can tap into the healing power of God for yourself and even loved ones.It is possible. Your dying marriage, strained relationships and failing business can be healed by the Lord. Do you know why? It is God s highest wish for us to prosper and be in health, 3 John2. If thou wilt diligently hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God, and wilt do that which is right in his sight, and will give ear to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, I will put none of these diseases upon thee, which I have brought upon the Egyptians: for I am the Lord that healeth thee, Exodus 15:26Ever seen in certain households how they buy much food stuffs and take big meals even if there are a few people in the house yet they still go to bed complaining of not being full?You hear one saying, Ah isn t there some bread or maize cobs? I ate, but didn t feel anything at all! Whereas certain people really get money, but the money doesn t get anything for them. It s sickness in their financial system it puts things out of order! You may be getting surprised now and saying pastor is it true? Can I be sick financially? Yes you can be sick financially.How do you explain it when you get over $1 000 per month and someone below you at work gets barely $100 yet they have a better life than yours?They eat well, dress well and get all their kids to school. It s a sign; something is not right, something is wrong in your finances. This is a wake-up call. If you have never heard it before let me tell you today that money can be sick, your money is diseased.It can actually have a cough. It will be well all along until it touches your hands. Once in your hands it s contaminated. Some of these things follow the bloodline and are assigned to make sure that you die poor; your children amount to nothing, your marriage is terrible, your business remains a briefcase company which never rise to any height in life.If you happen to buy something new something always goes wrong; a nail will tear the nice shirt or dress, the iron will suddenly get hot and burn the trousers; the bananas you bought to sell begin to rot; someone in the rural area will fall sick or die hence draining all the savings for a project in your account and many other things including a sudden fever that takes hold of your salary in payment of pharmacy bills.And some of you if you are to tell a relative that, I m planning to start a supermarket , they will laugh at you and say Ah you, a business? Kubva ini ndinotoenda kudenga netsoka! (If you start a business I will actually go to heaven).What discouragement! But friend, I have a good word for you your healing is right at your doorstep; healing for your money, ideas, children, marriage and all that concerns you.The supernatural power of God is about to touch your life in Jesus name, O hallelujah!Here are a few keys to unlock that power. Firstly, when the symptoms of a form of sickness show up, either in your finances, failing to sleep, in relationships, at work or in business refuse it.Boldly rebuke it in the powerful name of the Lord Jesus Christ. You tell that foreign circumstance no, no, no you have knocked on the wrong door. Resist the devil and he will flee from you, James 4:7.If it acts like it s not going, don t worry, tell it I am about to call security right now!O hallelujah! Do you know who I call security for God s children? Gabriel, Michael and hosts of God s angels! If it s your money that s sick pray for it and declare to it You are blessed. Moreso be faithful in tithes and offerings in your local church, Malachi 3:10.If it seems nothing has moved or changed after praying alone, don t quickly give up or give in to any form of disease or sickness. Engage another believer, a brother or sister in the Lord and agree together in prayer for your healing, . . . if two of you shall agree on earth as touching any thing that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven , Matthew 18:19.It s God s promise to fulfil all that any two of His children ask for in His name.Agree for healing of your families, marriages, children, business and all that you set your hands on.You can even agree for the healing of a loved one an abusive spouse, stray child, bed-ridden uncle, barren niece, addictive friend and collapsing organisation or business can be touched by this healing power of the Most High God, O hallelujah! For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27.