Minister of State for Harare Provincial Affairs Cde Miriam Chikukwa and Chinese Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Huang Ping at the children s party hosted by Zimbabwe Chinese Business Association in Harare yesterday. Picture by Innocent MakawaFidelis Munyoro Senior Reporter Zimbabwe-China Business Association yesterday held a children s party for more than 300 orphans as the country joined the rest of the world to celebrate the World International Play Day. The party was held at Longcheng Plaza children s play centre.Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Minister Prisca Mupfumira, who was represented by Ms Patience Sibiya, said Zimbabwe was promoting the right to play, as children learn through playing. It is crucial for adults to understand its importance and encourage children to discover the world around them in a fun and safe way, said Minister Mupfumira.She commended the Zim-China Business Association for their contribution to children s lives.Minister Mupfumira said the Constitution advocates protection of children from all forms of abuse such as economic and sexual exploitation including child marriage, labour and maltreatment. Each and every adult has a responsibility to care and protect children whether born to them or not, she said. Children also have a responsibility to fully utilise the rights given to them through the sacrifices of their families and caregivers. The minister urged all adults to work together to safeguard the future of the children.Minister of State for Harare Metropolitan Province Miriam Chikukwa hailed the Zim-China Business Association.Such fun days, she said, were essential for children s emotional and social development. The event clearly shows that the people of China are our all-weather friends who care for the welfare of our vulnerable children, said Minister Chikukwa. I believe that such events create a platform for cultural exchanges between our two countries. Chinese Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Huang Ping said Zimbabwe and China have become one family given the existing strong ties between the two countries. Many Chinese are coming here not only for business, but to also live in this country, said Mr Huang. They see this country as their second home. Our relations started way back in the days of the liberation struggle. Mr Huang said the frequent high level meetings between the two countries leadership is testimony of the cordial and friendly relations between the two sister countries. China and Zimbabwe have been and are good friends. We support each other in all issues concerning our mutual interests, he said.Mr Huang said children, being the future generation, shoulder the responsibility of further developing relations between the two countries.