Isdore Guvamombe Reflections Back in the village, in the land of milk, honey and dust, no amount of cosmetics can beautify a frog. What is bad and ugly remains so.Africa has been oppressed for far too long. Africa has over the years been clear that it needs a permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) and the United States and its allies have been the biggest stumbling block on this agenda. The US has brazenly proved that it sees Africans as inferior and not deserving of such representation at the highest level.Well, denying Africa the right to be represented at the international forum where decisions critical for the survival and advancement of humanity are made is not only political mischief, but outright thuggery and dehumanising.President Mugabe has come out strongly as one of the strongest campaigners for Africa s recognition at the highest level. Africa is strongly behind President Mugabe. Africa is saddened by the US and its allies who have used all dirty tactics to close out the continent from strong UN organisations.When Barack Obama got into power, Africa was fooled by the black skin to believe things would change in the US but nothing changed for the better; things got worse.In fact, white capitol made sure that Hillary Clinton runs the country, with a short leash on Obama.Soon Africa was to be forever disappointed to realise that Obama was no deal at all for an Africa looking for improved respect from US and Western Europe, an Africa looking for fair trade from the US and its allies: an Africa looking for increased participation in the United Nations powerful organs and, indeed, an Africa seeking to be heard and be treated as an equal partner.Today under Donald Trump, the story is the same.The US continues to demonstrate that it does not respect international law. Unilateral actions against sovereign states and their leaders have become a normal reality for White House, and new Trump s administration is not an exception. They do not care about possible consequences. They just act as they wish. The latest missile attack of Syrian airbases is a great example. There was indeed no thinking involved. It was emotional tantrum manifesting itself through bombs and when the emotion subsided, the US turned on Syrian rebels. Now what exactly is this? The US claims that it was a proportional response to the use of chemical weaponry by Syrian army. Fetid! But they don t see it necessary to prove this fact or to bring any kind of evidence. As it happened many-many times ago in Afghanistan, Iraq and Yugoslavia.They find a groundless pretext to act on, showing everybody that they don t care about international law, opinion of other countries and so on. Trump s words about national interests of US don t explain anything. How does the usage of chemical weaponry in Syria directly affect US national interests? And if so, where is direct evidence that it was Syrian army who did it? Where are the results of investigation? Why does Washington think it has become an international judge that can act without any kind of trial?And these acts of aggression will never be investigated by any of international courts like ICC! Does the ICC turn blind when issues involve the US? The US seems to be a country that can violate any kind of rules, kill innocent people, and stage regime changes, without being accountable to anyone but itself.But even being a superpower US can be stopped by the international community from acting like this.They need to gang up against the US and stop its shenanigans.Africa always wanted to have a permanent seat in UN Security Council.But before achieving this goal Africa must show everybody that it can take a unanimous position that condemns such kind of violations of international law.Africa must unite and speak loud. This is the only way to show everybody its outstanding role on international arena.The US continues to prove that it does not respect international law. Unilateral action against sovereign states and their leaders has become a culture at the White House.Going forward, the US must understand that the time has come for Africa and the oppressed citizens of the world to unite and demand what is right. That is fact and not fiction. No amount of cosmetics can beautify a frog.