Collen Murahwa Herald Reporter The Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) is warning the public of criminal elements who continue to misuse social media platforms claiming that the army is embarking on recruitment exercises. The false notifications currently trending on WhatsApp are to the effect that there will be a recruitment exercise by the army throughout the country s provinces during the months of May and June.Director Army Public Relations, Lieutenant-Colonel Alphios Makotore dismissed the misleading information in a statement issued recently. The army wishes to categorically make it clear that there is no such recruitment taking place, he said. The criminal elements masquerading as recruitment agents are not representing the ZNA or any of its members in any way. The ZNA would like to warn members of the public that these notices are fake and false, hence they must be dismissed with the contempt they deserve. Lieutenant-Colonel Makotore added that ZNA does not recruit through agents and social media. Once again, the ZNA would like to reiterate and advise the public that it does not recruit through agents and social media, he said. The origins of these fake messages are being investigated and the criminal elements once apprehended will be prosecuted. All ZNA recruitment programmes are advertised in the mainstream print and electronic media. Prospective applicants then respond through written applications, after which selections are carried out at designated military camps throughout the country s provinces. The false notifications are directing all potential recruits to report to the nearest military institutions in Midlands, Manicaland, Masvingo, Matabeleland South and North provinces.Lt-Col Makotore urged the public to report any suspicious persons masquerading as members of the ZNA to the nearest army camp or police station. The public is free to seek clarifications from Army Recruitment Office on (04) 707459 or Army Public Relations Directorate on (04) 700316 or Zimbabwe Military Police on (04) 790591, he said.