Senator MahofaFrom George Maponga in ZAKA Masvingo Provincial Affairs Minister Shuvai Mahofa has challenged people in the province to take advantage of the recently completed Tokwe Mukosi Dam and make sure the province becomes Zimbabwe s breadbasket through irrigation. Senator Mahofa said the province was poised to become the country s pacesetter in Command Agriculture with southern parts of Masvingo set to transform into a greenbelt through irrigation.Addressing hundreds of Zanu-PF leaders at Jerera Growth Point during a ruling party inter-district meeting, Senator Mahofa said Masvingo was now well-positioned to champion the Command Agriculture programme through irrigation. President Mugabe is a man of the people and as the people of Masvingo we are lucky because we now have the Tokwe Mukosi Dam which has the potential to propel our great province into becoming the country s breadbasket through irrigation, she said. Masvingo is well positioned to drive the Command Agriculture programme through irrigation and to the people of Masvingo I want to say to you now is the time to transform our great province after our leader President Mugabe honoured us by giving us Tokwe Mukosi Dam. She said Tokwe Mukosi Dam and the dualisation of the Chirundu-Beitbridge highway had the potential to turn Masvingo Province into an economic giant. Senator Mahofa warned party leaders, who abused the First Family and officials confusing Zanu-PF members through spreading false information. From now onwards we do not want to see individuals who abuse the First Family by feigning proximity to them; we will deal decisively with such characters. Masvingo is solidly united behind President Mugabe and the First Lady, she said.Senator Mahofa said the ruling party was set to retain all the 26 National Assembly seats in next year s elections with the opposition having failed to match the revolutionary party s pro-people policies. She thanked President Mugabe and the Zanu-PF leadership for allowing the people of Masvingo to elect a leader of their choice through provincial party chair Cde Ezra Chadzamira.In his remarks, Cde Chadzamira warned lower tier leaders against fomenting divisions saying Zanu-PF was a party that delivered tangible programmes that benefited the people. Let s shun factionalism and rally behind one centre of power President Mugabe, who is our candidate in next year s elections. Our President has given us life-changing projects like the Tokwe Mukosi Dam and then dualisation project and as a party we will make sure people from the districts benefit, he said.Today the provincial leadership will hold inter-district meetings in Bikita and Gutu, with the remaining districts expected to be covered by the end of the week.