Tafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Lifestyle Writer According to lifestyle coach and guru, George Eliot, Life began with waking up and loving your mother s face .Yes, that is the actual fact of life, all that you are or hope to be, can be owed to your mother. Tomorrow some parts of the world celebrate Mother s Day, a day set aside every second Sunday of the month of May to show appreciation and love to your mother.Some people are already busy planning how to treat their mothers with some whose mothers are deceased are also taking time visiting the grave and putting flowers among others.A mother can wear a lot of hats, not fashionably but of roles in society from counsellor, co-worker, daughter, sister, friend, wife, mother, aunt, grandma, neighbour, chef, nurse . . . the list is long.Sometimes these hats are stacked so high that trying to balance them all on our competent-but-anxious-and-exhausted heads sends some toppling over completely!But do you know a mother s best gift is the hat. In that same spirit, Timeless studio is hosting Mother s Day treat dubbed Hat Affair at OnCo Care, Newlands.In an interview with Saturday Herald Lifestyle, event organiser Leah NaChipo said all is set tomorrow for the Hat Affair, celebrating mother s love in a unique way.She said they chose the theme Hats and Mothers because mothers play an important roles in our lifestyle and most women love hats too as fashion accessories. It is easy to misplace our identity in such roles. For every person, there is a mother behind who fostered her child s sensibilities to their full potential. We chose to host the event at OnCo Care because we also want to raise the cancer awareness on mothers and hence the event is for every lady, every mother to come and celebrate the joys of motherhood. They can wear their hats or fascinators and enjoy the tea party. We have a surprise guest who will talk on the importance of motherhood and how women can develop a nation with their persuasion just like US singer and mother Beyonce once sang in Run the World, she said.NaChipo who is also the manager for Timeless Studio said all invited guests are expected to dress for the occasion.She said this is the second edition hence it is bigger and better compared to last year s. Mothers love fashion and we chose hats to resemble their lifestyle. We are going to award the best dressed mother among other prices who will walk away with a costume or dress of her choice courtesy of Rumbidzai Chigova of Designer Closet and Rosemary Vambe of Ashava fame who will give the African feel to the show. Songstress Tariro Negitare and gospel sensation Pastor G (Stanley Gwanzura) are expected to serenade the guests with their hit songs. There is going to be an African fashion showcase exhibition courtesy of Ashava with Timeless Studio giving away portrait vouchers to lucky mothers, she said.NaChipo added that some locals who are abroad have also planned to surprise their mothers as they are also taking part. I am so happy that the event has gone far with this year receiving calls and booking from diasporans in United Kingdom, United States, Australia, Canada, Dubai, France and China who want their mothers to attend and take part at tomorrow s event. Davison Florist has pledged a flowery bouquet to the winners as they also get extreme makeovers. I also want to thank corporate sponsors such as ZB Bank and Nicoz Diamond who have chipped in to make the event a success, she said.Asked about celebratory messages, NaChipo said some daughters and sons have already submitted a few messages which will also be screened on the day.Mother s Day celebrations can be traced back to the ancient Greeks and Romans, who held festivals in honour of the mother goddesses Rhea and Cybele, but the clearest modern precedent for Mother s Day is the early Christian festival known as Mothering Sunday. Once a major tradition in the United Kingdom and parts of Europe, this celebration fell on the fourth Sunday in Lent and was originally seen as a time when the faithful would return to their mother church the main church in the vicinity of their home for a special service.Over time the Mothering Sunday tradition shifted into a more secular holiday, and children would present their mothers with flowers and other tokens of appreciation. This custom eventually faded in popularity before merging with the American Mother s Day in the 1930s and 1940s.