LONDON. &#8211; Alexis Sanchez has put Chelsea at the top of his possible clubs to join should he leave Arsenal in the summer. Talks with Arsenal to extend Sanchez s contract have so far failed to reach an agreement.In the summer the Chilean will have just a year left on his deal and leaves Arsenal with the prospect of losing him on a free transfer in 2018.But he has been a visibly frustrated figure in recent months and the likes of Chelsea and Manchester City are keen to take advantage of his uncertainty.And the Telegraph say a move to Stamford Bridge is appealing to the 28-year-old, who is attracted to the style of Blues manager Antonio Conte.It means Arsenal face a difficult battle to convince Sanchez to stay at the club. However, Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger insists he is hopeful Sanchez will sign a new deal and if he does not, promised he won t be sold to an English Premier League rival.He said last week: If he doesn t sign a new deal, will I make him stay? Yes. Would I rather keep him than sell him to a Premier League rival? Yes. I don t think you would sell him to any Premier League club, that is for sure. Why not? The question is more why would you sell him to another Premier League club? You want to be as strong as you can be and not strengthen the other teams. I think he will sign and stay because, first of all, he is happy here. His desire is to stay. That is what I deeply believe. The disagreements are purely contractual &#8211; not on the desire. Both parties have the desire to find an agreement, so I think it will happen. Meanwhile, Arsenal have Hoffenheim s Alexander Rosen on their radar in their search for a director of football.The Gunners have been alerted to sporting director Rosen (37) who has been an key figure in Hoffenheim s success this season.They have been one of the Bundesliga s surprise packages since Rosen appointed rising managerial star Julian Nagelsmann.Nagelsmann, just 29, has followed up steering Hoffenheim to safety last year by leading them to their best ever season this campaign.They clinched a Champions League play-off placed for the first time on Sunday and if they retain third place in the German League Hoffenheim will be guaranteed a group stage spot.Rosen has also impressed in the transfer market, earning a reputation for striking good deals &#8211; both ins and outs &#8211; for Hoffenheim, like securing a 26m profit when selling Roberto Firmino to Liverpool in 2015.Despite some resistance from boss Wenger, the Gunners are continuing their search for what would be their first ever director of football.Rosen has been sounded out by intermediaries but former Arsenal winger Marc Overmars, now director of football at Ajax, and Borussia Dortmund s Michael Zorc are two other names also under consideration. &#8211; The Daily Express.