President TrumpJERUSALEM. Donald Trump has arrived in Israel on the second leg of his first foreign tour as US president, declaring it as a rare opportunity to bring security and stability and peace to the region. Trump was met by prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and president Reuven Rivlin. Descending the steps of Air Force One with his wife, Melania and apparently referring to the planning problems that have overshadowed a trip Israeli officials have described privately as chaotic Trump asked the Israeli prime minister: What is the protocol? Throwing up his hands, Netanyahu replied: Who knows? In joint statements on the tarmac, Trump and Netanyahu referred to hopes of a wider peace deal in the region, comments that were heavy on rhetoric but light on details of how that could be achieved.Welcoming the US president, Netanyahu noted the forceful speech delivered by Trump the previous day in Saudi Arabia, when he called on all nations to drive out terrorists and extremists . Israel s hand is extended in peace to all our neighbours, including the Palestinians, Netanyahu said.Trump praised Israel, saying it had built one of the great civilisations: a strong, resilient, determined nation that he said was forged in the commitment that we can never allow the horrors and atrocities of the last century to be repeated . During my travels in recent days, I have found new reasons for hope, Trump added. We have before us a rare opportunity to bring security and stability and peace to this region and its people, defeating terrorism and creating a future of harmony, prosperity and peace, but we can only get there working together. There is no other way. Officials on all sides have played down hopes of an imminent breakthrough in peace negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians described by Trump before his trip as his ultimate deal .Meanwhile, breaking longstanding tradition, Trump became the first sitting American president to ever visit the Old City of Jerusalem.Trump s visit to the Holy Sepulchre preceded his visit the Western Wall, one of Judaism s holiest sites.Trump visited two major religious sites in the Old City on Monday afternoon, during the first few hours of his visit to Israel. His first stop was the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, one of Christianity s holiest sites. The Guardian/Haaretz.