LONDON. John Terry sensationally revealed he could hang up his boots after sparking this seven-goal thriller in English Premier League soccer champions Chelsea s 4-3 win over Watford at Stamford Bridge on Monday night. Chelsea icon Terry scored in what is likely to be his penultimate game for the newly-crowned champions and suggested unless a good offer came along he might retire after Sunday s final Premier League match.The Chelsea captain, poised to end his 22-year association with the club at the end of the season, revealed he may now scrap his plans to play elsewhere.He said: I know I said I wanted to play regular football while I can, but I ve still not ruled out Sunday being my last game and retiring from football. It depends if the right offer comes along. I ll sit down and consider it with my family, whether that here or abroad or wherever that may be. Genuinely I haven t made any decisions as of yet and I m just evaluating all my options at the moment. Terry, who has captained Chelsea on a record 579 occasions, said he had never intended in trying to prevent younger talent from breaking through whilst he blocked their way. I never wanted to hang about and stop the progress of a younger player that was the basis of my decision. Terry, who could yet lift the FA Cup later this month, is likely to feature in Chelsea s final game of the campaign at home to Sunderland on Sunday.But he appears to have dashed the hopes of a number of clubs, including Bournemouth and West Brom, keen to sign him.He added: I think for me, I never wanted to be that player just kind hanging about that people couldn t wait to get rid of or stopping to progress of a younger player coming through. I think the transition for myself, being on the bench and seeing it from a different aspect, has served me well and will serve me well if I go into management in the future. I m concentrating on my badges at the moment. Even this year will serve me well in the future. Seeing it from the other side &#8211; Does the manager speak to players who are not in group? Is the training intense enough to make sure your fitness is right when you do get called upon, like tonight, and that you re fit and you re sharp? I ve learnt an awful lot of things watching from the other side this year sitting there and watching the group, how things have panned out. That will serve me well, just for me, to take the experience and kind of see how things will happen in the future. Terry opened the scoring on 22 minutes, only to gift Etienne Capoue the equaliser just two minutes later. Cesar Azpilicueta and Michy Batshuayi then scored either side of half time to put Chelsea back in control. Only for Daryl Janmaat to hit a wonder goal and substitute Stefano Okaka to equalise with 16 minutes left. The Mirror.