Paul Mundandi Sports Reporter RODRECK MUTUMa says he has fallen in love with Highlanders so much that he has even forgotten he was playing for their bitter rivals Dynamos a few months ago. The self-styled Prince of the domestic Premiership will be at the centre of attention when the two giants battle in a Castle Lager Premiership showdown at Barbourfields tomorrow. We are going to win tomorrow s match and remain within shouting distance of the log leaders. I am going to do everything to make sure that my team collects maximum points, said Mutuma. We are going into the battle as a team and we are not going to lose on our home ground. Everyone must put an effort, including the fans. Everyone who just loves Bosso must give us maximum support. Scoring is my job and if I fail to score, my teammates must play the same role because we play as a team. It will be sweet scoring against Dynamos. He said he was ready for the boo-boys. I know Dynamos will fight for their lives but we are prepared for them. I know I am going to be booed but it is not new to me, said Mutuma. It has been happening to me for the past seven years, even when I was playing for them. It s going to be a big game because the rivalry is just fierce. I am praying that I come up with one or two assists as well. This is just football. At the end of the day we shake hands, we joke and I feel that spirit must live on although Dynamos must fall tomorrow. Mutuma said he has never felt so much loved by a football club and its fans.He has also played for CAPS United in his career. Bosso coach Erol Akbay said his team was in good shape to try and fight for victory. I am going to do my best to win. I am going to use all my knowledge to try and put smiles on the faces of our fans. It has been long since Highlanders won the championship.Everyone knows how important the game is and we need a bit of luck to win. The match will be very difficult but the truth is it will be exciting as it is a very big game. We have to win it so that we stay at the top, said Akbay.