Snr Asst Comm CharambaCrime Reporter Police have named seven people who died recently when vehicles they were travelling in were involved in separate road accidents in Kwekwe and Banket on Sunday and Monday, respectively. In a statement, police chief spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba said seven people died in an accident involving a DAF CF lorry, a Nissan Caravan and an ox-drawn scotch cart on Sunday.The accident occurred at the 37km peg along Kwekwe-Gokwe Road near Summerview Mine. Police identified five of the seven victims as Talent Gwazani (28), Lucia Takawira (32), Ashley Guta (nine), all from Zhombe, and Tafadzwa Shambo (nine) and Moreme Mkhosana (20), from Kwekwe. The ZRP would like to urge members of the public who are missing their relatives to go to Kwekwe General Hospital mortuary to assist in the identification of the remaining two bodies, Snr Asst Comm Charamba said.She urged motorists to be observant and cautious on the roads to avoid unnecessary loss of lives as a result of accidents. Members of the public should desist from using ox-drawn carts on highways, especially at night when visibility is poor. Scotch carts should have reflectors so as to avoid accidents, she said.Meanwhile, two people died while nine others were injured when a vehicle they were travelling in was involved in an accident along the Harare-Chirundu Road near Banket on Monday night. A Nissan Vanette was travelling due west along Harare-Chirundu Road with nine passengers on board and on approaching the 91km peg, the driver encroached into the lane of an oncoming Nissan Sunny resulting in a head-on collision. One person died on the spot and the other one died at Banket Hospital, Snr Asst Comm Charamba said.The deceased were identified as Freddy Jonathan (43) and Stanley Nyamagara (77) of Banket.Their bodies were taken to Banket Hospital mortuary for postmortem while the injured were taken to the same hospital for treatment. Police are urging motorists to exercise caution on the roads. Drivers must keep their lanes to avoid interference with other road users, Snr Asst Comm Charamba said.