Paul Mundandi in ZVISHAVANE Shabanie &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;..0Chapungu&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;.0 SHABANIE Mine coach Takesure Chiragwi is confident his team will get it right after a goalless draw against Chapungu in the Midlands derby at Maglas yesterday.The Chinda Boys, who lost their away match to Ngezi Platinum last week, missed a number of chances yesterday in match they could have won with a wider margin had they been clinical in front of goal. We were very unfortunate. We created a number of chances but failed to score. We were on top of the situation for the entire 90 minutes. We still have to work very hard on the conversion part before we meet Dynamos next Sunday. It was a derby match and I was very pleased with the backing we got from our fans. Shabanie Mine will surprise a number of teams in the league but what is important is to keep on working hard, remain united and stage a big fight in the league so that we finish in a respectable position, said Chiragwi.Farai Mupasiri s thunderous shot removed some paint from the crossbar with goalkeeper Talbert Shumba at the wrong side of the action and the rebound was cleared to safety.Tafadzwa Chimoyo then missed a seater in the penalty box after he was fed by Lloyd Nyamande in the 22nd minute.Then, there was a bees invasion which forced everyone on the pitch to take cover.William Mapfumo, Mupasiri, Maziwisa, Collin Dhuwa, Nyasha Mpofu played well for the hosts while Xolisani Ncube, Ricky Bota, Blessed Mbavarira and Collen Zabula did well for the visitors.Chapungu s Tendai Chikuni was relieved to collect a point on his return to a club he coached last year. We played very well, we defended in numbers and since it was a local derby I am pleased. There is a lot of progress in the team and I just want the fans to keep on supporting the team. Everything will be fine and I am going to bring a lot of surprises, he said.TeamsShabanie: S. Mafukidze, T. Chigede, W. Mapfumo,L. Nyamande, N. Mpofu, C. Makoto,C. Dhuwa, F. Mupasiri, N. Maziwisa (E. Phiri, 81st min), T. Chimoyo, (D. Chivandire, 86th min), M. Murimi (W. Taderera, 59th min).Chapungu: T. Shumba, C. Kwaramba, R. Bota, C Zabula, B. Mbavarira, N. Murisa, T. Chitora (A Tavarwisa, 85th min), M. Muchangami, B. Mugoni, N. Papias, X. Ncube (I. Nyoni, 69th min)