Dar es Salaam. Tsogo Sun, a tourist accommodation and hotel facilities in Southern African region, is now expanding its investments in the region by opening up a new facility in Mozambican capital of Maputo. Based in SA, the Tsogo Sun chain has expanded its investment in Mozambique s vibrant capital city with the construction of a new R220 million ($17 million) hotel, the StayEasy Maputo , located just 2km from the group s luxury Southern Sun Maputo Hotel, with a total of 269 rooms. Construction of the new 125-room hotel began in mid-April 2017 and is scheduled to be completed by April 2018, says Mark Boyd, director of development for Tsogo Sun Hotels. StayEasy Maputo is in a magnificent location, and being part of a mixed use development, will undoubtedly be popular to both business and leisure travellers looking for the best and latest accommodation in the economy branded sector, Boyd said.Both these Tsogo Sun hotels boast prime locations on the seafront in the Bay of Maputo, just 2km apart on the Avenida da Marginal. The StayEasy Maputo will be built above the new Baia Mall that is currently under construction, and situated on a portion of the old Automoval Touring Clube de Maputo race track. The time is right to increase our footprint in this prime tourist destination, which attracts both international and local travellers with its tropical climate, lush scenery, golden beaches, diverse culture, and exquisite cuisine , CEO of Tsogo Sun Marcel von Aulock said.He added that Mozambique s growing economy contributed to the group s decision to boost its investment in Maputo. We re well established in the city, we understand the market, and we re delighted to be in a position to take advantage of these growth opportunities , he said. Tsogo Sun maintains a vested interest in its real estate and is committed to ensuring that its hotels remain relevant, fresh, and internationally competitive, added von Aulock. And all the offerings within the hotels are key to achieving our goal of creating great experiences for our guests. We believe this hotel will hold extra appeal for its exciting location above a lively new mall and we look forward to seeing it become a hotel destination of choice for travellers , Aulock said.The developers of the Baia Mall Shopping Centre are backed by leading growth market investor, Actis, in partnership with a consortium of Mauritian investors and ATCM (Automovel &amp; Touring Clube de Mozambique) as local partner.RPP Developments are performing the development management function for the consortium and successfully partnered with Southern Sun Maputo Limitada to develop the Stay Easy Maputo Hotel.Travelling to Maputo is increasingly easy from SA as flights from Johannesburg and Durban are regular and take about an hour.Tsogo Sun s portfolio includes over 100 hotels and 14 casino and entertainment destinations throughout Africa, the Seychelles and Abu Dhabi.In Tanzania, Tsogo Sun hotels chain owns and operates the Southern Sun Dar es Salaam hotel. eTN.