Beaven Tapureta Bookshelf Literature intended to positively groom the youths of Zimbabwe is on the increase, in fiction, poetry and Christian motivational forms. In Christian literature circles, for example, it has become common to come across a new book written by a youth advising other youths, sharing their experiences and observations in the real world. As can be seen in past Bookshelf s instalments, young Christian authors are coming on board, whether others establish that description creative on them or not.If only it could be true that all writing is creative ! Although a few of the motivational books get preachy at times, the young Christian writers most of whom have one way or another been exposed to local writers environments or organisations, are bringing new forms of motivational writing which is original, creative, engaging and profoundly educative.In this group of young Christian authors and poets is Stella Chegovo, whose book The Source (2016) generously gives advice to fellow young people based on the Holy Scriptures and author s real-life observations. The Source is a book you can read in a short time but because of its enduring wisdom, you would want to read it over and over again at different times and places, absorbing its guidance. It is like a personal guide for young people who have not yet known God s love but want to embrace it in their lives.Speaking to Bookshelf, Chegovo said she is passionate about advising the youths because she is a young person also. I see the way my fellow young people live which is something that I do not admire. Taking alcohol and drugs, getting into early sexual relationships, and refusing to acquire life skills at vocational training centres, said Chegovo, who, apart from being formally employed, is an exemplary multi-skilled hard worker in activities such as events d cor, cake baking, wedding gown and fashion designing.If Christian literature is rising, is there a marching readership then? Are the youths in particular reading?The issue of language has taken centre stage in Zimbabwean literary discussions. Applying it to this Christian genre, one can see that motivational books in indigenous languages are even scarcer.However, Chegovo believes that the youths are reading this kind of literature no matter it is mainly in English language. Zimbabwean youths are readers if you check these days there is a lot of Christian literature. I have seen many youths buying my book, Chegovo said.That her book The Source is not theory but relevant action-oriented, life-changing, is shown in her ability to marry reality with the Holy Scriptures. In all the chapters, she maintains the running theme, that is, God as the source of human joy.For example, the author says at the end of the chapter Expenses that she wrote it after witnessing young fathers, mothers and children begging in the city streets. Most of them are fit and can work for a living. This obviously is the result of unplanned or early marriages, and the author gives about eight declarations for young people to make in their lives before they consider marriage.These days some city youths love to be seen loaded with swag and bling as they take well-known rappers or chanters to be their role models. What with the unrestrained outpouring of suggestive Shona lyrics being sung by some of our young dancehall artists! Add to that, there are young women who have lost the true sense of beauty or decent fashion, all because they lack a certain wisdom which is in this small book.In an interesting chapter called Grooming , Chegovo condemns worldly definition of beauty, particularly skin pricking and staining popularly known as tattooing and the use of pills to enhance one s hips. Another craze in Zimbabwe and other parts of the world is that of artificially enhancing one s hips with pills. We do not need these things because God created us beautiful. Some of these drugs have long-term effects like cancer. If you need fuller hips, pray for them, writes Chegovo.Her book The Source , edited by author and journalist Phillip Chidavaenzi, is small and convenient for taking anywhere the reader may want. Its language is simple, with the last chapter being poetic. Born in the 80 s, Stella Chegovo works as a buyer in Harare. She is also a part-time student with the Institute of People Management of Zimbabwe (IPMZ) and Africa MultiNation for Christ Colleges (AMFCC).