MADRID. &#8211; He wears the number seven, but Cristiano Ronaldo has become the best No.9 in the world. The king of Madrid did it again, settling an intense Madrid derby Champions League soccer semi-final clash on Tuesday night with a hat-trick, just as he demolished Bayern Munich in the previous round.Ronaldo proved Atletico Madrid s Champions League destroyer once more with a hat-trick as Real Madrid took a commanding 3-0 semi-final, first leg lead.Ronaldo extended his lead as the all-time top scorer in Madrid derby matches by taking his tally to 21 and put Real firmly on course to defend their title in the final in Cardiff on June 3.French prince Antoine Griezmann huffed and puffed for Atletico but couldn t blow the casa blanca down, with Madrid s star emerging on top and one step away from another final, their third in four years.Atletico face a fourth straight knockout by their bitter city rivals, rendered impotent by a Madrid maturing under Zinedine Zidane and who actually looked better without the injured Gareth Bale.At least this one won t be another final defeat for Atletico like Lisbon in 2014 and Milan last year. Tell us how it feels, taunted Madrid fans with a banner referencing those games. The answer is: As painful as ever.Both sides lined up 4-4-2, Ronaldo in his new centre-forward role netting a treble to reach his 103rd Champions League goal &#8211; Atletico only have 100 in total. We were tremendous and it fell to me to score the goals, said Ronaldo. We played well from start to finish, the goals came naturally. The team was tremendous. I scored the goals but the team was phenomenal from start to finish, said Ronaldo. The sides meet again for the second leg on May 10. We have a good advantage but the tie isn t over yet, added Ronaldo. Atletico are a good side and it is not a coincidence they are in the semi-finals again. We have to be concentrated next Wednesday. In a first half strewn with errors and nervous energy, only the ice-veined hitman kept a head cool enough to nod home Casemiro s shanked cross in the 10th minute.Madrid dominated, Jan Oblak saving brilliantly from Raphael Varane and mere centimetres separated Karim Benzema s scissor kick from the top corner.Kevin Gameiro should have equalised but Keylor Navas expertly robbed the ball as the striker tried to evade him, while Diego Godin fired over after a sly Griezmann free-kick found him in space.Ramos was lucky not to see red for a forearm to the back of Lucas Hernandez s skull, as derby tensions started to bubble. We are Atletico Madrid, nothing is impossible, insisted manager Diego Simeone after the game, pledging a second-leg comeback.But impossible is exactly what it is. Atletico don t win European Cups, especially not against this team. Real Madrid are going for their 12th.Ronaldo s second goal, in the 73rd minute, was sublimely taken, a searing volley from the edge of the box, before he completed his 42nd Madrid hat-trick from close range with four minutes to go &#8211; killing the tie and Atletico. Again.Real Madrid boss Zinedine Zidane hailed the talents of Ronaldo. Cristiano is a goalscorer. He is unique. All the players were brilliant, he said. I am lucky to have these players. We try to play our football and enjoy ourselves. It works because we have great players with great attitudes. We knew what we had to do from the off and we played the game we wanted to. Today Isco played as a number 10 and was fantastic. We then had width with (substitutes) (Lucas) Vazquez and (Marco) Asensio. In a defensive sense we were brilliant too. Zidane, though, warned against any complacency. We have won nothing yet and need to continue in the way we are going, the Real Madrid coach said. We still have the second leg. We will have to work hard and fight for it. We will suffer at their place for sure. There s no such thing as an easy game and we need to play a perfect game at their place in order to go through. Atletico boss Diego Simeone, meanwhile, told his side to forget their latest derby demolition and hope for a miracle at the last European match at their Vicente Calderon stadium next week. We need to forget about this game, said the Argentine. It seems impossible, but it is football and football has these unexpected things that make it marvellous. Until the last drip of hope is gone, we will give it everything we have. Real needed a stoppage time equaliser en route to beating Atletico in the 2014 final, scored a late winner in the quarter-finals a year later and edged last season s final between the two on a penalty shoot-out.However, there was far more a gulf between the sides this time round. &#8211; The Mirror.