LONDON. The Arsene Wenger era &#8211; a story that started at Ewood Park against Blackburn Rovers on 12 October 1996 &#8211; will extend further into its third decade after he agreed a two-year deal to stay as Arsenal manager. Wenger has become an increasingly divisive figure among Arsenal fans in recent years but has agreed to remain at the club in the after-glow of an historic seventh FA Cup win at the club after Saturday s 2-1 win against Chelsea at Wembley.It was a success that added to his three Premier League titles, including two domestic doubles, and six Charity and Community Shields, ensuring he could play a strong hand in Monday s meeting with Arsenal owner Stan Kroenke that finally ended a tortuous, acrimonious period of uncertainty over his future.A section of Arsenal s support have organised protest marches and made their discontent clear as Wenger s side once again failed to halt a barren title sequence stretching back to The Invincibles season of 2003/04 &#8211; with the manager describing some of his treatment as a disgrace. So will the wounds heal in the next phase of the Wenger era? And is this the right decision for Wenger and Arsenal?Arsenal have not qualified for the Champions League for the first time in 20 years &#8211; and many would believe an FA Cup triumph would be the perfect parting point, allowing Wenger to go out on a high and a successor to usher in the new era.Wenger does not think in those terms. He is the eternal optimist who has never felt Arsenal were far away from recreating a title-winning team, even though the evidence against has piled up before him.He is committed as ever, even after 1,175 games as Arsenal manager, 676 wins and a remarkable win percentage of 57.5% &#8211; but did Saturday start a new era of success that can emulate his early glories, or will he simply face the same criticism again at the first sign of trouble next season?The Daily Mirror s chief football writer John Cross, author of Arsene Wenger: The Inside Story Of Arsenal Under Arsene Wenger , first covered the club for Islington Gazette and has covered his reign through 20 years as a national reporter.He told BBC Sport: I think it has gone a bit stale at times. I d love to see Arsene Wenger go out on a high and, maybe now on the back of FA Cup glory and history, the time has come for him to go. The fans enjoyed their day at Wembley but is that the mood long term, or will they quickly go back to being unhappy? It s a fine line and Wenger should be remembered as nothing but a hero. Staying longer would put that in jeopardy. BBC Sport