Bishop Phillip Mpindu and wifeArts Correspondent Gospel musician Rev T Chivaviro will headline the Methodist Revival Church Kingdom Connection Conference that will be held at Long Cheng Plaza Mall in Harare from Friday to Sunday. The gospel musician will perform alongside Devine Fire Assembly as well as the MRC praise and worship team. Bishop of the church Rev Phillip Mpindu said they had their goals as a church. We are developing our own revivalism tradition which remains an epitome of our identity. Like any other revivalism, it s a set of religious practices that produce an atmosphere of spiritual intensity with two main goals. These aims include convincing non-Christians to convert to Christianity and have a lasting relationship with God. We want to encourage Christians to revitalise their faith and hope in the Lord. Revivalism centres on vigorous preaching, audience participatory singing of popular songs and creating a deep spiritual sense of worship to ensure the restoration of the relationship of man to God, he said.Mpindu said they had their own identity, which they will share with participants during the conference. Who are we, what is our name, what is our identity? To have a term Methodist in our name does not mean it marks our identity. We are revivalists. That s who we are. We are developing our own revivalism tradition which remains an epitome of our identity. Like any other revivalism, it s a set of religious practices that produce an atmosphere of spiritual intensity with two main goals, he said.Chivaviro who recently launched his album Maranatha that is fast gaining ground said he was geared for the event. We are on a mission to take our new album to different parts of the country and us performing on such important event is another milestone in achieving that. The conference will have different people coming to perform and we will make sure they are satisfied, he said.He added that it was encouraging to share stage with different musicians that include the MRC choir.