Mobile apps tend to complement an existing website but having both is an even better option as you get to target both the desktop/ laptop users and the smart phone usersBusinesses do not see the sense in building a mobile app when they don t even have a website in the first place. Generally speaking, a mobile compatible website should be considered your first step in developing a mobile web presence. Mobile apps tend to complement an existing website but having both is an even better option as you get to target both the desktop/ laptop users and the smart phone users.Generally websites are cheaper to build especially with these newer emerging technologies, templates, CMS etc. Above all they are cross platform meaning they can work on any browser without any complex setup or downloading unlike mobile apps.With a mobile website all you need is a domain and hosting once the site has been built and your site will be constantly online. Users can simply find the site through a URL (website address) unlike apps which need to be downloaded and installed on a smartphone depending on whether the app is compatible with those particular platforms.Mobile apps on the other hand tend to be less clustered, have great performances and give a specific user experience based on what the app is designed for.The features and benefits of each tend to complement the other meaning in this newer emerging mobile market you cannot afford not to have a mobile app despite having a website. One problem still remains, cost. You need to pay for the website design and if finance, time and content allows, invest almost double the figure into a mobile app. This is a major drawback for most companies hence they end up settling for just a website.What if we were to tell you that you can now kill two birds with one stone. We as ZIMHOST Webdesigners can design a mobile app that features an independent mobile website as one package at the same time all done in one go and under one figure.The two share the same database meaning any updates that take place on the mobile app auto update the mobile website as well.Both will be cross platform (android, IOS for mobile apps) and (windows, linux etc for the mobile web). No need to worry about doing the complex mobile app compiling and reinstalling for every update you make. All can be done from your website portal so as to update both instances simultaneouslyOne of the ZIMHOST Webdesigners, Mr Enos Taderera had this to say The number of enquiries we get on Mobile app design is growing at an alarming rate.Most enquire if we will be able to do an Mobile App after we are done with their website and they find it hard to believe when we advise them that the mobile app we design will feature a website as well .From as little as $100, you can have such a package which features a mobile website and a mobile app.Visit ZIMHOST Webdesigners today, a 14 ICT Company of the year award winner to get your 2 in 1 mobile website and mobile app. ZIMHOST Webdesigners, 1st Floor, Angwa Hse, Cnr Angwa/ G. Silundika, 0771 111 222, 04 796528, [email&#160;protected], www.zimhosts.com