Isdore Guvamombe Reflections Back in the village, in the land of milk, honey and dust or Guruve, real men sit in counsel discussing matters of State and governance, while those viewed less useful in contributions are sent goat skinning. By keeping Africa without a permanent seat on the UN Security Council, the world powers have relegated Africa to a goat skinning role, way outside the arena where serious world matters of State and governance are discussed. Every sane African must, therefore, feel insulted to the marrow.Over the years, President Mugabe has led the chorus calling for United Nations reforms that should give Africa a permanent seat on the all-powerful Security Council and transform world politics into a new trajectory. This epitomises the distress calls over the matter that has increased in both volume, tempo and pitch and has reached a crescendo.Year in and year out since the Ezulwini Consensus was adopted by African leaders, African leaders have been calling for a reform of the UN.The Ezulwini Consensus contains Africa s position on the UN reforms and a Committee of 10 was formed to spearhead this and it is chaired by Sierra Leonean President Earnest Bai Koroma and it represents two countries each from Africa s five geographical regions namely Southern, Northern, West, East and Central.Southern Africa is represented by Namibia and Zambia whose presidents are members of the C10. The committee recently met in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea to find ways of expediting Africa s representation in the UNSC.Africa s narrative to reform the United Nations must be an African agenda. Every African leader must be involved in the fight. It will never be a small fight. The world powers would want to maintain hegemony and grip on the powerful UN organ so it will not be a small boys fight, to gain a seat. It will be a big guys fight.The UN Security Council is the cockpit of world power and Africa with its 1,3 billion people cannot fail to be represented in the world power matrix. If the world respects Africans, the same world should understand that Africans must be heard and Africans must participate in critical world peace and security decisions. Is respect not sacrosanct?By keeping Africa outside the UN Security Council, the world powers have relegated Africa to a goat skinning role, outside the arena where serious matters of state and governance are discussed.It portrays Africans as useless people, vehemently unable to participate in the main discourse and therefore, should be relegated to the useless function of skinning the goat that feeds those busy engaging in the main discourse. Well, if this is not dehumanising, then what is it?Africa is only wanted for its vast untapped natural resources and UN is keeping white supremacy intact. It is a racist approach. Even Kofi Annan who became the first black UN secretary general, had a ceremonial role to play but changed nothing. He came back more white than black. He came back more European than African.Africa today remains the major repository of untapped wealth and therefore, cannot be overlooked when matters of peace and security which are the bedrock of development are being discussed.Progressive thinking Africans still await the day when one by one African leaders stand up and walk out of a UN Summit, demanding nothing but the reforms. That will be the biggest day for Africa, but probably except for President Mugabe, it is expecting too much. It might be akin to expecting honey from a fly.The sad story of this generation of African leaders is that they have reduced themselves to cheer leaders and spectators on a game that they can only win by going into the pitch and play. The C10 need to be more aggressive, more combative and confrontational because UN has failed to act on this matter on a diplomatic front.Everything happening at UN should be interpreted to prop up white supremacy. The terrace cheering approach will not bring the results to this continent and Africa will forever be treated as young boys, while giving other continents and countries big brother status. There is no doubt that the founding fathers of Africa s revolution are twisting and turning in their graves with anger and disgust that the current crop of African leaders have not seen reason to be confrontational.They should stop mere clapping of hands, weak diplomatic offensive and be more tactical.This is the best cause worthy fighting for in this day and time. It is a fight worth fighting.From prudent sayings on wisdom itself, to judicious encouragements, warnings and even quirky advice on learning, patience, unity, wealth, poverty, community, family, love and marriage, African wisdom inspires growth and prosperity. God Bless Africa!&nbsp;