Shashl_Arts Reporter Since launching her single No More at a colourful ceremony in Harare recently, rising diva Shashl_ has attracted the attention of R n B music followers. The single is being played on local radio stations while followers on social media networks have endorsed the track. The song was produced by Adrian Tate who is popular in local hip hop circles for his outstanding productions.Many people that have heard the song have been eager to know more about the young singer.Shashl_ was born Ashleigh Angel Moyo 18 years ago and started doing music as a young girl growing up in Harare.She is a versatile, energetic and creative artiste, gifted with the ability to play nine music instruments including piano, guitar, marimba and mbira. I had interest in music when I was young and I always had a dream to go and record my songs one day. I have been writing songs over the years and I am now working on having them recorded. I am glad with the reception of my first single that came with a video. Both the audio and video are getting good airplay and this is a good starting point for me, said Shashl_.After discovering her love for music at a tender age of nine years, she began learning and mastering an assortment of music instruments over the years. Her undying passion for music has also saw her attain high grades in music at school. I wanted to be able to play many musical instruments and passion made it easy for me to master most of the instruments that I tried. That versatility gave me the experience that I needed before going into the studio. I was glad to work with Adrian Tate, who has been a good producer for me and introduced me to recording in a way that will certainly develop my future studio sessions. I am working on my next release that will be done soon. I just love doing music every day. Before her first recording, Shashl_ got many platforms to perform at big events and amassed the much needed music and performing acumen to put up a well-polished set.When she performed at the launch of her single at News Caf , she showed much confidence and emphatic stage presence that proved her experience with live shows.The young musician said the beginning of her professional music career also means shaping her brand for international appeal. Shashl_ is a brand name that seeks to tap into different markets with sales and growth as the paramount objective. With a huge following on social media platforms such as instagram and Facebook the brand is poised to grow and be associated with other big brands. Shashl_ has exhibited good communication skills that are likely to help her push her brand while the appeal of her music has a great potential to make her a star in her genre.