Sports Reporter GIANTS Dynamos are disappointed they will have to wait a bit longer for the Castle Lager Premiership blockbuster against bitter rivals CAPS United which faces an indefinite postponement. The football rivals were supposed to clash on Sunday, but the Premier Soccer League are in dilemma after the National Sports Stadium was booked for a church service on the same day.The PSL were yet to make a decision by yesterday, but they had already informed Dynamos that they were facing challenges in slotting the match after Rufaro which is currently getting a facelift is unavailable.The Glamour Boys president Kenny Mubaiwa yesterday said the postponement of the match could present a challenge to his team after they had finished planning for the match.DeMbare were also hoping to get a financial injection from the gate takings to offset the salaries backlog of staff and players.The Harare giants are in salary arrears.They had not been able to pay full salaries after their sponsors BancABC cut their sponsorship package by half this year to leave the giants having to foot part of the bill. It s disappointing, we really wanted this match to be played this Sunday because the derby is one big match that we always plan for in advance. Many things hang on this match. Besides being one of the biggest dates on our calendar, it s also a match that we are assured of a substantive revenue from the gates and at least we can cover certain operational costs. However, we have been told the National Sports Stadium is not available and Rufaro is not yet ready. So we don t have much of a choice. It s sad football continue to suffer this way. Last Sunday we could not have played our match against Yadah at the stadium if it wasn t for the intervention of the ZIFA president. Now the derby has been affected. We have also been playing around with an idea of late kick-off, but we are told the church service starts at 2pm which makes it difficult to make any contingency plans. So we have a challenge on our hands. The Harare Derby is a big match and we always anticipate big crowds. So it cannot be played at any other venue in Harare except the National Sports Stadium and Rufaro. We have to respect the Derby, the safety of the supporters and people who come to watch. I don t think Morris Depot, which has hosted other Premiership matches has the capacity, said Mubaiwa.