Chipinge farmer Mr Chonayi in his cabbage plot recentlyJohn Basera and Silas Mutota Due to changes in eating habits as well as a generally health conscious populace, opportunities for vegetable production have abound.Farmers can tap into these opportunities and upscale their top line and bottom line questions on their farming concerns. Cabbage is one of those healthy vegetables! Nutritionally, cabbage is an important source of calcium with moderate amounts of potassium and sodium. Cabbages are a good source of vitamin A and C and therefore protect the body against cancer attacks. It is also a very good source of roughage which prevents hypertension and constipation.The basic farm business principle is that farmers should have at least two major crop harvests per year (eg maize in summer and wheat in winter) supported by other complimentary crop harvest/sales after every two months.Cabbage is obviously one of the great and viable options in such a cropping diversity mix. It is one of the most popular vegetables grown in Zimbabwe by small, medium and large scale farmers for food and income generation.Cabbage is one of the most ideal types of vegetable for a farmer who wants to make money in a short period of time with generally low production costs. It is one of the crop ventures with a very lucrative return on investment &#8211; $2-$4 per dollar invested, after a period of about 100 days (from seed to head).The average cost structure on a per hectare basis for cabbage at high management levels ranges from $3 000-$4 000 at full absorption (ie incorporating all variable costs), and a farmer will be expecting a return of about $9 000 and sometimes more depending on market dynamics.Besides eating as raw, there are a number of value addition-end products from cabbage namely; mufushwa (dried cabbage) and is also an integral additive in some soups.A significant proportion of cabbages produced in Zimbabwe is being exported to other countries in the region such as Mozambique and Botswana and opportunities to supply other countries in and outside the region is always there, even so for cabbage value addition products. This earns the country the much needed foreign currency.Soils which are medium to heavy with good water holding capacity are most ideal. Sandy soils tend to require more frequent irrigation cycles and require higher levels of fertilisation but still are ideal. pH levels should be between 5.5 and 6.5, hence soil samples need to be taken for analysis prior to transplanting.Soil conditioning (eg liming) is encouraged if analysis results prescribe so. Lime generally sweetens acidic soils and improves the physical soil structure and should be applied and incorporated well before transplanting. Generally well drained and prepared soils (friable) are ideal for good crop establishment and cabbage production in general.Cabbages respond very well to compost-enriched soils. However, the use of disease-infested brassicas residues to make compost for cabbages is discouraged as this will cause problems to the crop especially black rot, which normally overwinters on brassicas residues.Levels of 20 to 30 tonnes per hectare of well-prepared compost will benefit and reduce levels of fertiliser among other benefits such as improving the soil physical structure. Manure and chicken litter can also be used but must be well decomposed or composted, otherwise root burn may occur and affect crop growth and yield. For manure, 10 to 20 tonnes per hectare is generally recommended and 2 to 5 tonnes per hectare for chicken litter.It is recommended that you dip seedlings in a solution of Actara to give the crop a six-week protection against aphids and whitefly. Also apply a foliar spray of Bion to the seedlings to activate the plants own defence or immune mechanism against bacterial and viral attacks.Choosing a variety contributes significantly to the ultimate success story of the farmer and we always encourage the farmer to grow F1 hybrids. In fact choosing a hybrid variety is the first step towards satisfying your market. Varietal choice must always be driven by the market requirements. Cabbage varieties vary in size from 2,2kg up to 9kg per head.Prime Seed Co, through its intensive, rigorous screening and testing for the above desired qualities, has over time released several high quality and high yielding hybrid cabbage seed on the market. Notable common prolific performers include the following sought after F1 hybrids:This hybrid variety is very early maturing, with a medium-large round head of up to 5kg for the fresh market. It has a good head cover against sun burns. This hybrid performs very well even in hot conditions. It has shown good resistance to economically important diseases such as Fusarium Yellows and Black Rot.Firm and flat, large headed variety weighing 5-6kg are produced and more importantly it is a suitable option for all year round production. Firm flat heads weighing 5-6kg are normally produced. This hybrid variety has a good field holding of up to 20 days which gives a farmer the good grace of harvesting window. This variety has shown good resistance to Black Rot.This is a typical hybrid cabbage for the tropics. Large, strong blue-green leaves makes this hybrid good for transporting. Flat-round head of up to 5kg is normally produced. This hybrid has a very good field holding, giving the farmer a good harvesting window. The variety has good resistance to Black Rot and Fusarium Yellows.Planting can be done on beds during the rainy season which helps to aid drainage and on the flat during the winter period since water is controlled. If beds are made, they should be 1.5metres-centre to centre. We recommend 2 rows on the top of the bed between 50 to 60cm apart and planting stations 45 to 50cm in row. Planting on the flat rows can be 50 to 60cm apart and planting stations 45 to 60cm in row. Plant populations should be between 30 000 40 000 depending on market requirements and variety. Higher plant populations generally tend to give smaller sized heads.Cupping with fertiliser cups by hand into the planting hole can be done but the fertiliser must be well mixed and incorporated in the hole to prevent root burn. We recommend farmers to do a full soil analysis to determine the nutrient status of the soil and to determine the fertiliser types and rates to be applied. Based on soil analysis results and soil types, rates of basal fertiliser that can be applied ranges from 600kg-1 000kg compound C per hectare. These are general recommendations. There are also other basal options, which can be used. Cabbages will require around 400kg per hectare of AN split into 3 applications between week 2 and week 8 after transplanting, but still the quantities can vary with several soil status factors.Planting with seedlings is the most practical method as seedlings which are strong and healthy at transplanting forms a good basis for a uniform crop, helping to aid efficiency at harvesting. We generally recommend farmers to plant around 10 percent more plugs per hectare of a selected plant population density to ensure an optimum population density after factoring in field conditions. When using seedlings or seedlings at transplanting, a farmer should make sure to attain a good plug to soil contact . This will aid the quick mobility of the root system from the plug set to the surrounding fertiliser enriched soil to a quick new root setting and root development. We recommend the farmers to plant the speedlings as quickly as possible after pulling them from the trays to avoid drying out of the tiny hair roots.Plant into pre-irrigated soils in which the soil has been irrigated to field capacity. After transplanting a light settling in irrigation is required to remove air pockets between the plug and the soil and ensure a firm contact to enhance the plug-soil contact. It is recommended that seedlings are dipped in a solution of Actara before planting to give the crop a 6-week protection against economically important pests such as aphids and Whitefly.During the dry winter months irrigation is essential and key for a good cabbage crop. Overhead (sprinkler or centre pivot irrigation) is the most commonly used option. Other options include flooding as well as drip irrigation-a recent clean technology. During summer production, the farmer s ability to supplement irrigation during long dry spells will ensure a good, even and viable productive crop. Approximately 600mm 50mm of irrigation is generally required to achieve a good cabbage crop.Irrigation is key, hence it is imperative for the farmer to schedule irrigation, so that water is applied as and when it is needed by the crop from establishment up to maturity. Always avoid over and under-applying water as both scenarios have detrimental effects to yield and returns.Cabbages are ready for harvest when the head is firm to the touch-when pressed and when the veins on the outside leaves just begin to crack. Ideally about 60 percent-70 percent of the heads should be cut at first harvest, ensuring maximum yield potential. Depending on variety and time of the year, a cabbage crop takes about 65 130 days to harvesting after transplanting.John Basera is Seed Co Head of Agronomy Services. He can be contacted on +263 772 413 184/ [email&#160;protected] and Silas Mutota is Prime Seed Co Sales Manager. He can be contacted [email&#160;protected]