PROUD PARENTS-TO-BE . . . A pregnant tennis star Serena Williams tenderly holds her bump as she poses beside her fianc Alexis Ohanian on Monday night at the Met Gala in New York City.NEW YORK. &#8211; Serena Williams is known for her impressive moves on the tennis court, but the professional athlete is special for something entirely different in the eyes of her fianc , Alexis Ohanian. The stunning couple attended the 2017 Met Gala together on Monday night and spoke with Humans of New York photographer, Brandon Stanton.The Reddit co-founder is clearly smitten with his bride-to-be, saying, She has the biggest heart. Everyone sees her success as an athlete, but all of that is layered on the size of her heart. He went on to reference her recently announced pregnancy, saying, She gives 100 percent of herself to everything she does: as a friend, as a lover, and soon, as a mother. For what is claimed to be one of the best parties of the year, it s no surprise that some of the world s best athletes made an appearance at the 2017 Met Gala.Two of those athletes who lit up the red carpet at the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art were 18-time tennis champion Roger Federer and 23-time champion Serena Williams.Federer gave us basically a full live look of his night as if it were a short story with a Tom Brady appearance as well. That bedazzled cobra though &#8211; so fire. The Patriots quarterback went on to write a post of his own on Instagram about Federer and his championships, too.However, it was Williams who stole the show in a green gown that showed off her pregnancy.According to The New York Times, tickets this year for the Met Gala were $30 000 apiece and tables were about $275 000. Williams accidentally announced she was expecting her first child in April on Snapchat before deleting the picture. She plans to take maternity leave for the remainder of the 2017 tennis season. On Monday night Williams has made her very first red carpet appearance since accidentally announcing her pregnancy nearly two weeks ago. &#8211; Mailonline.