Bishop B. Manjoro Dunamis Throughout history there are various generations that have come and gone. Each of those generations had a distinguished characteristic amongst all other things. From the Word of God, we see right from Abraham, generation after generation coming forth. Abraham, Moses, Noah, are amongst the men who had powerful times in their generations.One generation did it; one generation possessed the land and took over the Promised Land. One generation didn t just talk about the promises of God, it didn t just dream about it, or just plan about it, no it did it. It s the generation that I will be talking about today, the generation that goes for it!You could have spent years planning to have a thriving business, desiring to have a good family and being a responsible parent, aiming higher yet finding yourself down always this is your article, meant to equip you to do all you dream of and be a part of the action generation that moves and walks by faith! And it came to pass, when Joshua was by Jericho, that he lifted his eyes and looked and behold, there stood a man over against him with his sword drawn in his hand and said unto him, Art thou for us, or for our adversaries? And he said, Nay; but as captain of the host of the Lord am I now come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth, and did worship and said unto him, What saith my lord unto his servant? And the captain of the Lord s host said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoe from off thy foot; for the place whereon thou standest is holy. And Joshua did so , Joshua 5:13-15From our text above we see Joshua talking to the captain of the Lord s host, he saw him in the air and began to talk to him. Previously Abraham had also been told to lift up his eyes and saw the promised-land. Friends if you want to be a part of the generation that do it you have to see.You need to have spiritual eyes, eyes that see beyond the natural; eyes that see a promotion where others are talking of retrenchment; eyes that see a strong and united family where the devil is wielding divorce in your way; eyes that see A s and distinctions were others are crying and saying this exam is tough; eyes that see good health and long life despite the death sentence on your medical reports; eyes that see tomorrow despite being behind bars right now and sulking over the fate before you.Friend, listen to me, No-matter who you are or where you are right now, I declare to you as a servant of the Most High God, you can do it!You can do it!You can do it!It s never over until it s over! You are just where you are on your way to where you are supposed to be!O hallelujah!There is hope brother! There is hope sister! Yes there is hope in God.You can and you will do it!See beyond today and also desire to be equipped. You see life is all about equipment.If you are equipped you will deal with all that come your way. But when you are not equipped you will cry and be in trouble.Moses was in such a predicament at the Red Sea, Pharaoh coming from behind and the Sea before him.All the children of Israel began to cry to him.Immediately God said to him, why are you crying? Don t you know that you are equipped? What is it in your hand? Stretch that rod over the Sea and divide it. That s the supernatural.Reader your situation is not too hard, it s not too difficult, no. You can do it. You can divide it. You can build that business up again, you can mend that marriage, you can get your child back, you can still own that house yes you can, you can still be the person you have always wanted to be.Don t read this article and remain the same, no.My prayer for all of you is that you do it and make it in life.Everything has its time, this is your time. Your life should go forward, the works of your hands should prosper, your health should be sound, your children should excel and be the best this is your time.Even if it means water has to come from a rock like it was with the Israelites in the desert let it be.Let water gush out of your dry business. Let, A s come from all your studies, let the impossible take place in the name of Jesus.I pray for you today to grab your miracle and enter your promised land.Moses was a powerful man but he only saw Canaan, Abraham also had the promise and saw it but Joshua and his generation did not just see, they did it. They took over the land. They possessed Jericho and all the land of Canaan. Despite the giants, the walls and the obstacles, they did it. They obeyed the word of the Lord and actually entered the land.O hallelujah.May you actually be the director as you desire; be a good parent; be a renowned artiste, a successful producer; a powerful minister and the person you have always desired to be, in Jesus name.Do it! For with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27