Antonio ConteLONDON. Antonio Conte urged his Chelsea players to take the first of their three chances to become English Premier League soccer champions against West Brom on Friday after a dominant 3-0 win over Middlesbrough at Stamford Bridge on Monday night left the Blues on the brink of the title. Diego Costa, Marcos Alonso and Nemanja Matic all found the net as Conte s men condemned their struggling visitors to relegation in emphatic fashion and eased seven points clear of second-placed Tottenham, who suffered a shock defeat against West Ham last Friday.Chelsea now require just one win from their final three matches against West Brom, Watford and relegated Sunderland to confirm a second English Premier League title triumph in three years, and after Monday night s match Conte challenged his players to seal a fantastic season at the first opportunity at the Hawthorns.Asked what he had said to his players following the Middlesbrough win, Conte replied: The message was now we need to take another step. In this part of the season, we always said it s right to look at ourselves and not wait for the result of the other teams. On Friday we have a good chance to finish this league, to become champions. It won t be easy, but now we have three chances to exploit to become champions. We are very close. But we need to take another step to become champions in the English Premier League, a fantastic achievement for us. For sure now, I m a bit relaxed. This step was big, a big step for us. A big win. At this stage of the season, to win is great. Now we need to do another step. It s very important for us to go step by step. Next it s West Brom and we have to try to win the league on Friday. It won t be easy. West Brom are a really good team, a physical team, and we must pay great attention. They will want to play a top game against us. Conte was pleased with his side s response to Tottenham s 1-0 defeat against West Ham last Friday but warned their visit to The Hawthorns will not be easy. This game was very important for us after the defeat for Tottenham, Conte told Sky Sports. The possibility to take three points and to go seven points ahead of Tottenham. For us it was very important to play and to win today. Honestly for sure this is a big step because now there are three games. We need to take three points to win the title. It s great. If you think in the last 10 games Tottenham won nine and lost only one. That means we won eight games and lost only two. I think that in this situation we showed great will and desire to win the title. Now we are very close but we need to take another step. We have the possibility to win the title without the wait for the Tottenham result. We must focus and prepare well for this game. We all know to play away against West Brom won t be easy but we re in a good moment. Cesc Fabregas shone at the heart of Chelsea s midfield in the absence of injured Footballer of the Year N Golo Kante, directly creating the first and third goals for Costa and Matic with floated passes, and Conte had words of praise for his Spanish playmaker afterwards. Cesc is one of the best examples for our season because he didn t start a lot, Conte added. Then, through work, through hard work, he improved a lot. And now he s playing in every game. I think this development of Cesc is our development. We started the season not in the right way, with a lot of problems, but only through hard work did we find the right solutions and the right way. Now Cesc is showing himself to be a fantastic player. I m pleased for him. I saw, this season, that he put himself in this team in every moment if he played or if he didn t play. Defeat confirmed Middlesbrough s relegation back to the Championship, and caretaker manager Steve Agnew stressed the need to reflect and rebuild. Everyone is devastated, he admitted. We ve worked so hard for a number of years to get back into the Premier League, and we know how tough it is. Obviously we ve come up short. I ve left a very silent dressing room with everyone, staff and players, absolutely gutted. We can only reflect over the 36 games we ve played. We ve not won enough games or scored enough goals. We all know it s a Premier League football club in everything the supporters, the stadium, the training ground, the infrastructure is all there so the most important thing is to finish the season strongly with two more games to go. We have to gain more points to finish strongly, then everything moving forward will be aimed at getting back into the Premier League as soon as possible. ESPN.