Philani Beefy NcubeEddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter HARARE City chairman Alois Masepe says the Sunshine Boys could not wait until it was late to make changes to their technical team and settled for Philani Beefy Ncube as their new coach yesterday. Ncube, who won the Premiership Coach of the Year accolade in 2008 with Njube Sundowns, has been tasked with turning around the fortunes of the club.He replaces Mike Madzivanyika.The Sunshine Boys are looking to make a new beginning when they face struggling Dynamos at the National Sports Stadium this evening.Kick-off is 6pm.Masepe said they had short-listed four candidates, but settled for Ncube because he is readily available.The burly coach has already joined the team in camp ahead of the game against DeMbare.Madzivanyika reverts to being an assistant coach together with Philemon Mutyakureva under the new set-up.Former coach Mkhupali Masuku has been reassigned from the senior team to take charge of the development side, the Harare City Cubs, which plays in the ZIFA Northern Region Division One league.The City Cubs had no substantive coach since the departure of David Kutyauripo during the off-season.The club was under the tutelage of technical director Elvis Chuchu Chiweshe. We believe the candidates that we had invited for the interviews are very competent. So we settled for Ncube because he is available and ready to start. We have made a request that he is registered with the authorities for him to be on the bench tomorrow. The mandate is simply to turn around the team into a competitive outfit. Remember four teams could be going down this year and with the way we had started we could not wait for the team to go down first and then react to the events. Leadership in essence demands that crucial decisions have to be made to save the team. That is why we have decided to make the changes now, said Masepe.Only a single point separates the teams on the log standings with Dynamos 13th with eight points while Harare City are 15th on seven points.Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa is under pressure to save his job after the club s leadership indicated they will hold a crisis meeting tomorrow.DeMbare are coming from a disappointing 1-1 home draw against Shabanie Mine. We might have wanted to win each and every one of the games that we have played, unfortunately we couldn t, but we have to look at our next match against Harare City with hope. The best response that we can give following that performance against Shabanie Mine is to go out there, play well and get maximum points. That is what we are aiming for. The boys are itching to go and hopefully we will be able to turn things around. I m appealing to the club s supporters to rally behind the team until the last whistle. I am sure together we can make it through this phase, said Mutasa.Castle Lager Premiership Fixtures:Today: Highlanders v Chicken Inn (Barbourfields), Yadah v Triangle United (Morris), Harare City v Dynamos (NSS, 6pm), ZPC Kariba v Chapungu (Nyamhunga), Shabanie Mine v Bantu Rovers (Maglas), Tsholotsho v Ngezi Platinum (Dulivhadzimo), *CAPS United v FC Platinum (*Postponed)