Prophet MakandiwaThen Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and change your garments (Genesis 35:2) Jacob got an invitation from God to come back to Bethel, the place of the presence of God, but there was a requirement. There was need for him to prepare himself, his family, his household and everyone around him. He had to present a teaching on putting away strange gods in a way of preparing them for the presence of God. Preparation is very important, it plays a very important role when it comes to experiencing the presence of God in your life. Jacob prepared his family for the presence of God.You don t enter into the presence of God without preparation otherwise the sooner you enter the sooner you exit it. The presence of God is something that you need to be ready for. Failure to prepare yourself can result in a devastating experience. Sometimes when God wants to give you something new, before He gives it He gives you a feeling, He helps you to pick events that are coming your way before they can happen.You will have a feeling that something is about to happen but you don t know what it is. That s how God speaks in most of the cases. It is very rare for one to hear the voice of God audibly. God had something new for Jacob but He wasn t ready to reveal what it was unless Jacob was willing to take the first step, which was moving away from a place where the voice of God was not.God is inviting us to different places but His voice is not audible. God is not noisy, in most cases He is not loud. He whispers, He helps our brains to pick up His ideas and to sense His intentions. God sometimes makes us desire what He is desiring Himself. There will be a transference of Godly desires, where God can transfer His desire to help a certain person and you feel like you want to help yourself. God is in that business where He is transferring His will and desires, He makes you to feel what He s feeling.Inasmuch as God would have wanted Jacob to come to Bethel, there was need for Jacob to prepare himself. Prepare yourself for greater levels that are coming your way. Preparation is needed, most people lack preparation in their lives. You have been asking God why things have been delaying to happen in your life but you might be delaying things in your life by delaying your preparation.You are not preparing for what God wants to do in your life. First and foremost, sense it that God wants to do something in your life. Don t wait until you hear a voice from God, you are allowed to feel it and sense it.Sometimes before you know where God wants you, He makes you feel uncomfortable where you are. You just feel pain, out of place but you are not aware of the right place. The problem with us humans is that we try to introduce everything that makes us comfortable in that uncomfortable place.Sometimes when you feel that you are out of place it could be the voice of God telling you that you are not supposed to be there. Every other person in that place might be happy because they belong there but you continuously feel uncomfortable. Sometimes you can t really pick up it but you just feel that your time in the place has elapsed and you have to move on.When God is inviting you to new levels and experiences there is need for you to prepare yourself for the better life that God is inviting you to. If the presence of God has shifted to another place you have to pursue it. In the Bible Israel would move as the presence of God moved. There was a cloud that when it moved they had to also move, their pace was dictated from above. When the presence of God moves you have to also move, people stay too long in one location and yet the presence of God upon their lives in that location has already shifted away.You can stay long enough in one business and you start making losses because you are not really sensing where the presence of God is. When the cloud moves you move. Wherever you are keep on checking if you still have the cloud of the presence of God upon your life, upon your career and upon your marriage.If it is no longer there, find out where it is and follow it. Preparation is very important, prepare yourself for the presence of God. Find out if the anointing of God is confirmed in what you are doing. Do you still have the anointing of God working for you in that area? If you don t pick it, prepare yourself, maybe God is inviting you to a certain area.Some of you think strange gods are just idols that you worship, no! Money if it is not properly handled can be a strange god. Money in the hands of a non-believer is a strange god. Money in the hands of a man that is not born again is a strange god. That s why he doesn t look for God anymore because he has one &#8211; money.A strange god is anything or anyone that seem to be controlling your way of thinking. Anything that shifts your focus from God the Creator, that thing is a strange god. If God says that He s blessing you and a politician comes to you and says something different, God remains your God if you believe His word but the politician becomes your god the moment you believe him. That person will then become your strange god.Anything that moves away your focus from God and His word, that thing is a strange god. The doctor s report can be a strange god if it is moving away your focus from the promises of God in regards to your healing. What they are saying might be something they have seen in your physical body but the voice of the doctor should not be louder than the whisperings of the Holy Spirit in your life. Certain diseases are very dangerous but being in the presence of God a disease can t be that effective when you are under the cloud of the Holy Spirit. Remove all the strange gods in your life. Feedback: https://www.facebook.com/prophetEMakandiwahttps://twitter.com/prmakandiwahttps://www.instagram.com/emmanuelmakandiwa/Helpline: +263 4 339 341[email&#160;protected] mailto:[email&#160;protected]&nbsp;