Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter DEFENDING champions CAPS United are set to shift their attention back to the domestic Premiership without attacking midfielder Tafadzwa Rusike who has been ruled out of the match against ZPC Kariba at Nyamhunga this afternoon because of injury. Rusike, who was a late substitute in their last assignment in the CAF Champions League clash against Zamalek in Egypt, is battling a groin problem.There were also concerns over the impressive leftback Valentine Musarurwa.The Green Machine coach Lloyd Chitembwe yesterday said the diminutive fullback was a doubtful starter after complaining of a knee injury.Makepekepe will also be missing their skipper Hardlife Zvirekwi after the veteran defender was ruled out for some weeks with a pulled muscle.Chitembwe has a good pool to pick his team with the likes of Ronald Pfumbidzai and Zvikomborero Biseki available for the fullback positions and midfielders Moses Muchenje, Phineas Bamusi and Ronald Chitiyo fit.But judging by their hosts form, Makepekepe face a daunting afternoon in Kariba.Chitembwe still expects his charges to rise to the occasion despite the injuries in his camp. This is something that we knew from the onset that we will play many games. We started preparing for these challenges the moment we qualified for the Champions League. In fact, this is what excites the players, playing more games and being competitive. We also urge our supporters to continue rallying behind the team. They have contributed a lot to where we are today and I am sure if we succeed this season they are also part of the success. But we still expect a difficult game in Kariba. ZPC Kariba started this season very well and to me I think they are one of the favourites for the title, said Chitembwe.Makepekepe are coming from a 0-2 defeat to Zamalek in the group stage of the CAF Champions League.But they are still unbeaten back home where they have played five matches and amassed nine points.Their last home performance was a 4-0 thrashing of Chapungu at the National Sports Stadium.But ZPC Kariba have been breathing fire after winning their last four matches on the trot against Shabanie Mine, Harare City, Bulawayo City and Tsholotsho.The excellent form has seen Sunday Chidzambwa s men climbing to second on the log standings with 15 points in the bag from seven starts.Chidzambwa was yesterday upbeat ahead of the match. We are always prepared for all the games and funny enough this year we have seen that there is nothing like an easy game. You play Tsholotsho at home, they give you torrid time and you go to Bulawayo City and you don t get it easy neither. But I am happy with the way we have played this season. I think we only failed to score in one match against Yadah FC, but in all the other outings we have, at least, got a go, which is something positive. CAPS United, however, are a very good side. They have been playing high level competition in the Champions League and remember they are the same side that knocked out TP Mazembe from that tournament. So we don t expect an easy game, said Chidzambwa.The hosts are set to welcome big striker Francisco Zekumbawira who has recovered from injury.The former Dynamos and Harare City man was scheduled to take a fitness test together with midfielder Charles Rukwanhi.