 And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine. (John 2:3) Having God in a nation does not mean you will not have problems; Jesus was present and wine still ran out. Problems will come but victory is guaranteed when Jesus is present. You need to make a decision to have the absence of wine but in the presence of Jesus.If you are going to hit an economic problem in the presence of your God victory is guaranteed. Let God be present in your life, any mistake that you do, He is there to correct it. We will still have problems in this nation even in the presence of God but a solution will be close to us.When God is present, any wrong decision you make can still be corrected. When we refer to Jesus as our Saviour, He does not just save individuals but nations and economies as well. That is how powerful He is. But, before a person can be saved by Jesus he has to come to Jesus and confess His Lordship. Even before Jesus can save a nation, it has to come before Jesus and confess His Lordship and Kingship before He can save that particular nation from any financial or economic crisis.There is a time in the Bible when people came to Jesus and they wanted to make him King but He just avoided it. (When Jesus, therefore, perceived that they would come and take him by force, to make him a king, he departed again into a mountain alone. [John 6:15]). What really pushed people to want to have Him as their king was not any other miracle but the multiplying of bread He had just done. He had proved that He is the only breadbasket. If He was able to put food on their table they wondered why shouldn t we have such a person to reign over us.The time we are in right now almost every nation is complaining about its leadership. It has become a universal problem but why are people complaining against their leaders everywhere? Jesus is trying to prove to people that there is only one leader who can satisfy nations. All the commotion that you see happening it is preparation of the only one Kingdom that will stand forever whose governance is accurate.Jesus is the desire of nations, all that nations are crying and moaning for they do not know that it is Jesus. Even if people have the right leader they still feel like he is not the right one. There is never going to be one person that is ever going to satisfy humanity. Only Jesus is going to bring satisfaction to humanity. All the protests you see happening the world over are preparations for the divine Kingdom headed by Jesus. When Jesus is coming this time around, He will not come as a Lamb to die but the Lion to rule. This time Jesus is not coming to be the Sacrifice but to be the Lion. And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. (Matthew 10:7). By saying that the Kingdom of God is at hand it means it is within reach. It is us who bring the kingdom of God into kingdoms. We walk into kingdoms representing the Kingdom of God. The Bible already gave a prophecy concerning Jesus that the government shall be upon His shoulders. Jesus is the head and the church is His body which means it is the church that carries the government of God. It is the church that carries the rulership of God. The Kingdom of God is not placed upon Jesus but upon His body the church. We are here to represent the proper Kingdom of God, it is upon us to rule and have dominion.If we say that the Kingdom of God is at hand, it does not come by the second appearance of Jesus but by your arrival in a place. The Kingdom of God arrives simply by your arrival. You carry the government of God upon your shoulders which is a superior government that supersedes the physical government. It has been proven in the entire Bible that certain people can live in their own different environments but within the same environment. Just like when it can be cold in a nation and you can create a different environment in your house by putting heaters. It becomes a different environment within the environment. In your life there has to be an environment that moves along with you.How God operates it is out of this world. In a desert place where there was no water and everything was dry but God still managed to bring water in that dry desert. Take the rod, and gather thou the assembly together, thou, and Aaron thy brother, and speak ye unto the rock before their eyes; and it shall give forth his water, and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock: so thou shalt give the congregation and their beasts drink. (Numbers 20:8).Inasmuch as every other part of the desert was dry, God referred Moses to the hardest place to get water from it, the rock. In the place that was dry God referred Moses to the hardest place to find the softest thing from there, water coming out of a rock. God is trying to show us that within every difficult situation whether it is the economy, within it God can help you identify the solution you are looking for. There is no situation that is completely dry before the hand of the Almighty God. Speak to that hard situation and it shall give you its water.The Bible says that God commanded light to come out of darkness. It was darkness all over but there was light contained in that darkness and He called it out. Sometimes when things are tough what I am saying here might not make sense. When things are really tough what the preacher says does not really make sense to you.This is because when the enemy really want you to stay in your problem one thing he tempers with is your understanding of the word of God. He confuses you to such an extent that you will not even know when the preacher is talking about you. The enemy knows that when you are confused, whether you come across a compass or map you will never find your way back home. Confusion in the presence of a map, the map will not help anything and it will never lead you home.