Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter Black Rhinos &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;. (2) 3Hwange &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;&#8230;0 BLACK Rhinos might be enjoying a purple patch but their coach Stanford Stix Mtizwa once again refused to install them among the favourites and insisted they are only fighting for Premiership survival.The soldiers, who put on a fine show, shot to the summit of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League table yesterday after dismantling visiting Hwange at Morris Depot.But Mtizwa, who has seen Rhinos often being relegated from the top-flight, is not getting carried away just yet.Rhinos sixth win in nine games took their points tally to 20 and one above miners FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum, who are second and third respectively. This is the first time this season that the Premiership returnees find themselves on the top spot.After a bumper four days where they managed to collect all the points at stake following another victory against Dynamos at the National Sports Stadium on Thursday night, the army side dislodged FC Platinum from pole position.Goals by Jameson Mukombwe, after five minutes, Milton Kureva after 44 minutes and Vincent Mhandu seven minutes from time sealed Rhinos win.The goals summed up a perfect afternoon for the team which outdid their opponents with purposeful football.It was rewarding for the handful supporters who chose to be at Morris Depot. But for Mtizwa it is business as usual for the modest side which is still battling with handling heat in the Premiership and ensure they avoid another quick return to Division One. I am talking to my boys about relegation, that s our main aim, to stay in the league, Mtizwa said.The former Zimbabwe midfielder, a creative and one of the most technically gifted players of his era, however, said he is happy with the way his team is turning out to be.Mtizwa has built his side around a mean defence that has only been breached twice so far.Former Dynamos centre-back Sydney Linyama has been marshalling the defence that also includes skipper Bruce Homora, Wilson Chakanyuka and Mukombwe. Rhinos attack has also been sharp firing 11 goals and it is that balance in the team that is ensuring Mtizwa can afford long and peaceful nights after each weekend. The progression of the team, I am happy. We keep collecting three points especially at home. I was worried fatigue would catch up with us because the mid-week match against Dynamos was intense but we managed to do well. I am happy now that my strikers are scoring goals. The defence is doing very well, we hope we can continue doing so, said Mtizwa.Mtizwa said he was aware that their success so far would also mean tougher assignments ahead of them. Teams are about to change their approach towards us now that we are on top. But we will work on that and remain composed, he said.Hwange coach Nation Dube said he wasn t disappointed with the result considering that he has assembled a new team after losing a number of good players during off season. It s a new team and I cannot say I am disappointed. We will emerge out strong. We didn t come to the party. The soft goals that we gave in. That was it. After the first goal we tried to come back but we missed chances. If we had scored then, things would have changed. I cannot say we are in the relegation zone, a few points separate us with the teams above us, said Dube.Teams:Black Rhinos: H. Rusawo, J. Mukombwe, W. Chakanyuka, B. Homora, S. Linyama, W. Kapinda, D. Mundandi, C. Chitsamba, M. Kureva (V. Mhandu 77thminute), B. Marere, L. Chiwunga (S. Yamikani 90th minute).Hwange: T. Mvula, A. Banda, C. Phiri, H. Kaunda, O. Moyo (S. Chichevo 66thminute), C. Muleya, N. Chinyerere (W. Munorwei 56th minute), G. Ndlovu, J. Kaunda, S. Gadzikwa, G. Gadzikwa.