Jerry Marley KujekeTafadzwa Zimoyo Senior Arts Reporter&#8212; Wenera actor Jerry Kujeke has it all: a multifaceted career, an excellent wardrobe, the looks, the talent and now his own fashion label. After a break-through last year, landing a role in the most watched soap on ZTV, Wenera, Kujeke who act as Marley a dreadlocked ghetto chant boy who loves to eat on set will soon launch a label Slay Prince, named after his stage moniker.Slay Prince s collection which would be launched next month, consists of T-shirts, hoodies, scarfs and caps. In an interview, the Mbare based actor Kujeke said fashion and acting goes hand in hand as one has to portray a well groomed image. After landing a role in Wenera last year, I gained love from ghetto fans because they could relate to my role. Many a-time dreadlocked people are regarded as dirty and rowdy but I changed that perception and I am a fashion person. I later earned nickname Slay Prince because of my style which led me to decide to launch the label, he said.The 30-year-old star said acting gave him a competitive edge to express himself well. I want to launch the label in the ghetto so that I can accommodate my fans. I can say that I just wanted the freedom to make my own world, without someone else s brand, he said.Kujeke will soon engage his boss, Eddie Ndlovu to include the Slay Prince designs on set. I am waiting to discuss with Ndlovu about the label. I owe my success to my director and want to thank him for the platform. My role model is South African based Zimbabwean actor Leeroy Gopal and Nigerian actor Van Vicker who inspired me to be better, he said.The 30-year-old star noted with concern that acting in Zimbabwe was under rated. We have talent locally but the challenge is we are under rated somehow. Did you know acting can sustain livelihood if taken seriously? When I started acting it wasn t my plan but then I got encouraged by people like Gopal and Chirisa. We are our own Hollywood but we need to support and appreciate each other very well to build the empire, he saidKujeke, whose childhood in Harare was devoid of fashion influences, has fast emerged as an effortless ghetto style actor.He featured in Small House saga in 2007 where he learnt cinematography.The ever smiling actor also appeared in Tytan and Ammara song Mukoko and Arnold Gara videos.