Sports Reporters FC Platinum will make a return to their Mandava today, after weeks of lodging at Maglas, when they host Yadah and they want to make it a happy homecoming show. The stadium, which has been undergoing renovations, was certified fit by the ZIFA First Instance Committee on Thursday. The grounds inspection committee, made up of PSL competitions manager Elisha Mandireva, Pithius Shoko and ZIFA s Xolisani Gwesela, were in the mining town on Thursday to inspect the stadium.FC Platinum spokesperson Chido Chizondo said they were happy to be returning home. We would like to confirm that we will be returning to Mandava stadium this weekend. It s good to be back home. The work on the stadium has been finalised. We would like to take this chance to thank the entire Shabanie Mine Fc family for allowing us to use Maglas Stadium It was indeed home away from home and to all the supporters who came through thank you for supporting us. We hope to continue in the same spirit and momentum throughout the remaining fixtures, said ChizondoFC Platinum are looking to start with a positive result at Mandava this year and assistant coach Lizwe Sweswe warned Yadah to brace for tough afternoon.Yadah arrived in the mining town of Zvishavane on Thursday and have been training at McAdam field. We are happy to be playing Yadah tomorrow (today).I just want to inform them that God is for all of us. God also needs people to work hard on the pitch to achieve results. It s just a pity that I do not know much about them but we are waiting for the day when we play them. We are as usual expecting a positive result. We are excited that we are back at Mandava and it s good to be home as we have been playing at home away from home. We do not wish for negative results on Sunday, said Sweswe.Yadah have former FC Platinum midfielders Tatenda Dzumbunu and Wellington Kamudyariwa.Coach Jairos Tapera was the one who guided FC Platinum into the Premiership and revealed this week he would be comfortable with taking on FC Platinum at Mandava.Platinum coach Norman Mapeza was expected home yesterday after a week in Turkey where he had been invited by former club Galatassaray.Meanwhile, Black Rhinos skipper Bruce Homora says the secret to the army side s bright start to their campaign is that they do not have players regarded as stars in their team.He says coach Stanford Stix M tizwa has been a huge inspiration to the team. The coach always tell us there is no shortcut to success. We always work beyond our limits to get the kind of results that we have been getting this season. Hard work always pays. We are a team, there is no one regarded as a star player at Rhinos. We are always applying ourselves as a group at training and during matches. But like the coach has said previously we have not set ourselves big targets. We are a team that has just returned to the Premiership so our primary aim is obviously to make sure that we survive relegation first, said Horoma.Rhinos have built their campaign on a the platform of a firm defence that has only given away two goals in eight games.They have lost only once and are currently second on the log standings with 17 points, one behind leaders ZPC Kariba.They host Hwange at Morris Depot tomorrow hoping to continue with their fine run.FixturesToday: Chapungu v Harare City (Ascot, 1pm, SS), Tsholotsho v Bulawayo City (Dulivhadzimo), Bantu Rovers v Highlanders (Barbourfields), FC Platinum v Yadah (Mandava).Tomorrow: Ngezi Platinum v ZPC Kariba (Baobab, 1pm, SS), Dynamos v Shabanie Mine (NSS), Triangle v How Mine (Gibbo), Black Rhinos v Hwange (Morris Depot), Chicken Inn v CAPS United (postponed).