Sports Reporter ZIFA have pardoned Harare City official, Hope Chizuzu, and lifted his suspension from all football activities with immediate effect. The Sunshine Boys media official, who is also a local football pundit and a regular panellist on ZTV s authoritative weekly football magazine show Game Plan on Monday nights, was provisionally suspended in March this year.However, Chizuzu s suspension has now been lifted after the two parties found a way to build bridges. The Zimbabwe Football Association wishes to advise that, following a decision by the ZIFA president, Dr Philip Chiyangwa, your suspension from all football activities has been lifted with immediate effect, a letter from ZIFA s acting secretary-general, Joseph Mamutse read. To this effect, Chizuzu is free to partake in any role in association football. The Association said they suspended Chizuzu for allegedly bringing the game into disrepute. Chizuzu was served with a provisional suspension letter on March 8, 2017 following the ZIFA Executive Committee s decision to bar him from participating in football related activities, charging him for contravening Article 7 of the ZIFA constitution, the Association said on their official website. Chizuzu was charged with bringing the game of football into disrepute and disregarding ZIFA s rules and regulations. It also emerged that Chizuzu has been in regular touch with ZIFA vice-president Omega Sibanda trying to find a resolution to his fall out with the country s football leaders. Following several meetings between you and me over the issue of the ban, please forward my sincerest apologies to the ZIFA president Dr Philip Chiyangwa, whom I injured through my utterances, a letter written by Chizuzu said. It has come to my attention during those meetings with you about the issue that I was wrong and my conduct brought the person of ZIFA president and the Association he leads, into some serious disrepute. As a football person I accept responsibility for my actions. By copy of this letter, please accept my apology and forgive me and restore my status quo, so that I can continue to serve football. I love the game so much and support the Association in their endeavour to make Zimbabwe football better. 