LONDON. &#8211; Black soccer players have been urged by anti-racism organisation Kick It Out to boycott this weekend s matches in Italy unless authorities withdraw the one-match ban imposed on Sulley Muntari. Pescara midfielder Muntari was booked for dissent after complaining of racial abuse from the crowd during Sunday s 1-0 Serie A defeat to Cagliari. The former Portsmouth midfielder walked off the field in the closing stages of the game in protest, earning him a second yellow card.Despite world footballers union FIFPro calling for Muntari s yellow cards to be rescinded because of the exceptional circumstances, Serie A s sporting judge decided his punishment must stand and he is now suspended for Pescara s game with Crotone on Sunday.Anti-discrimination campaigners Kick It Out described the Italian authorities as gutless , and independent trustee of the organisation Garth Crooks says black players must act if Muntari s ban is not lifted.Kick It Out s statement read: Kick It Out has made representation to FIFPro, the World Players Union, to share its frustrations about the treatment of Sulley Muntari by the FIGC (the Italian Football Federation). The gutless failure to not take action by the Italian authorities should not be allowed to pass. It s unbelievable that Cagliari escaped punishment as only 10 fans were involved. This situation should never be allowed to happen again. Garth Crooks, an independent Kick It Out Trustee, is calling for every self-respecting black player in the Italian League to not play this weekend unless the Italian authorities withdraw the ban on Sulley Muntari. Juventus legend Alessandro Del Piero, who now works for Sky Italia as a pundit, spoke to Muntari after the game and lent the Ghanaian his unequivocal support. You handled things perfectly, Del Piero told Muntari. Your setting the example for tomorrow. You did everything right. The world players union FIFPro on Tuesday urged Italian football powers to quash Muntari s yellow card for leaving the pitch over the weekend, after fans hurled racial abused at the Ghanaian player. &#8211; Sky Sports.