Bishop B Manjoro Dunamis If you have been suffering from seasonal oppressions from the enemy that come and go at a particular time, be healed in Jesus name!To some, this can be death in the family every August; for others an accident after every two years. Some people from the same family divorce at a particular period; whereas to some it s a kind of sickness, disease or attack that comes regularly.Let all of such periodic cases be broken today, in Jesus name!Enough is enough! This is a good year, a year of restoration.The first third of the year has already gone by! Two more to go and now is the time for your miracle. You need to shake yourself and say to yourself, My day is today, my time is now, my hour has come! O Hallelujah! Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches. In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water: whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had. And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty eight years. When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole? The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool: but while I am coming another steppeth down before. Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed and walk. And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed and walked . . . John 5:2-9.The story above is common to many, yet it teaches us a lot on how to move from a place of torment, suffering and pain to the place of liberty, fulfilment and joy.It could be in your marriage, finances, academics, family, health, business or at the work place this word is for you and will work for you!We see a man who had suffered for 38 years from a spirit of infirmity and could not walk. He lay at a pool in Bethesda were miracles were taking place and people healed every now and again. Listen to me friend, it s not enough to be in a church building or just be around a place where things are happening. You can be there and still miss your miracle! O, how sad!For 38 years this man saw other people receiving their miracles and going home rejoicing, yet in all those years he never reached a quarter of his much needed healing miracle.An angel would come and stir the water, and whosoever went in first was healed. Actually the man started to suffer even before Jesus was born. Others would stand with him, encourage him, but sooner or later leave him there alone at the pool after receiving their miracles.Ever been left by the very people who were your pillars, support and source of strength?Dumped by the one person who told you, I will stand with you always? Be of good courage. Jesus is a friend that sticks closer than a brother. Your story is about to change; you are coming out of your situation.Finally, Jesus got to the pool and for some reason, of the five porches he went straight to the porch where this man was. Yet again for some unusual reason, of all the sick people and lame in the porch he went straight to this man and asked him; Do you want to be well? Was it a coincidence or some sort of joke or something? Absolutely not.The Master is a man of his words. He meant exactly what he said.Listen brother, the word of God does not joke with you. It means what it says, God is not a man that he can lie nor a son of man that he can change his mind, no!God is God! It was no coincidence.Jesus knew this man before he was even born nor conceived in his mother s womb.God says to Jeremiah; I knew you when you were still in your mother s womb. Hallelujah!Friend, God knows you by name. He knows your situation. He knows your troubled family, agonizing marriage, stressful finances, painful body and all the things you are going through. He knows and is ready to take you out of it all.Only believe and trust His Word.He has chosen the foolish things of this world to confound the wisdom of this world.After being asked by the Lord a simple question Do you want to be well? Listen to what the man says.He says; Sir I have no man to help me get into the pool to get my healing! Listen to this message and your life will be changed forever. Never ever have an excuse for not getting your miracle, never have an excuse to be poor, broke, sick, suffering and living in pain.I hear someone saying; But Bishop you don t understand, it s actually my aunt who bewitched me and said I will never get married. She is the hindrance, what can I do about it? Stop giving an excuse or blaming anybody in your life. It will delay your miracle.Even if it s your spouse, children, boss, aunt, or a dead relative, don t blame or give an excuse go for your miracle.Do you want to be well that s all Jesus is asking? He is Lord, remember.He is the one that sending the angel that stirred the water and other people would get healed.This time no stirring of water, he has come himself to heal you. O Hallelujah.Be well, for with God all things are possible, Mark 10:27