JOB WELL DONE . . . ZPC Kariba coach Sunday &#8220;Mhofu&#8221; Chidzambwa (left) is congratulated by Kariba Member of Parliament Isaac Mackenzie while fans Phineas Nyamunga joins the fun at Nyamhunga on Thursday after the victory over champions CAPS United. &#8211; Picture by Paul MundandiPaul Mundandi Sports Reporter SUNDAY Mhofu Chidzambwa has expressed his desire to lift the Castle Lager Premiership title with ZPC Kariba this season. The country s most successful football coach guided his men to the top of the Premiership table after edging champions CAPS United 2-1 at Nyamhunga on Thursday. That victory even cheered the Member of Parliament for Kariba Isaac Mackenzie who gave the team $1 000 as a bonus for their giant-killing act. We have the potential to win the league. I have always believed in Mhofu. I think 2017 is our year and all the big teams are going to fall in Nyamhunga. Sunday (Chidzambwa) is the best coach in the country, said Mackenzie. Our players are coping well to his formation and that is the reason why I parted with my money. I just want them to go and enjoy drinks for the job well done. They are putting Kariba on the map and we must not be known for producing electricity, fish, especially kapenta or our largest man-made lake in Africa only but we must also be known for producing good players and winning the league. Chidzambwa made his name at Dynamos and became the first coach to take the Warriors to the Nations Cup finals.He is the only local coach to guide a local club into the final of the Champions League. In football every coach wants to be successful and I am not an exception. I would love to lift the championship with ZPC Kariba because that is only one thing which measures the success of a team, he said. We are playing Ngezi Platinum on Sunday and it s going to be a very difficult game because they are playing well and it will be not be easy for us. I am happy that I have assembled a good team here. I hope they will maintain that attitude. I have faith in them and all we need is to maintain our form and work a little bit hard. I can see the results coming here. Interestingly, Ndiraya was one of the players who were guided by Chidzambwa but now he is standing on his own as a coach in a set-up that also has another former DeMbare son Gift Muzadzi. We play every match to win, especially at home, said Ndiraya. We have never lost a match at home except the two points we lost when we drew with CAPS United. We are very confident and teams that come to Baobab will not find any joy. We know ZPC will be very confident. They have one of the best coaches in the country who also happens to be my mentor. I respect him and my coaching, together with other former Dynamos players, should be credited to him. I respect him so much. We are Ngezi Platinum and on Sunday I have a job to do. I am not looking at the log because it s still early days but we have to be competitive. I am happy that the information from PSL about the change in time came early and my players have already adjusted. We changed our training time and we are waiting for ZPC Kariba on Sunday. His men will have to find a way to keep the likes of Francisco Zikumbawire, Rapheal Manuvire, Never Tigere and Blessing Nyamuzihwa in check.Ngezi will be missing the services of Byron Madzokere, Dominic Mukandi, Washington Pakamisa, Clive Agushto and Nelson Ketala who are all injured.But Ndiraya has a number of good players like Donald Teguru, Tichaona Mabvura, Liberty Chakoroma, Walter Mukanga and Qadr Amin.