Penny PangetiPenny Pangeti (PP) is the host of Capitalk FM s Capital Crunch , a sophisticated magazine show that seeks to impact the mind, body and soul. Below she gives a glimpse of who she is and what motivates her to do the work she does. Question: How did you first get into the media industry?PP: I fell into it quite by chance actually. I ve always loved the media but never thought about it as a career path that I could seriously pursue. Somehow things aligned and I found myself here and I couldn t be more thrilled. I ve learnt more about myself in the last few months than I ve done probably my entire life.Q: What would you say most motivates you to do what you do?PP: I have two daughters and am a very proud aunt to many more; I try my very best to show them that they can do anything they set their mind to. I am motivated by the belief that Zimbabweans can produce programming that is authentic and internationally competitive.Q: What attracted you to work for Capitalk FM?PP: There s something inspiring about being part of a new initiative and working to build a vision for something that promises to be a wonderful addition to the broadcasting landscape of our country. There s a great bunch of people at Capitalk and the camaraderie is infectious.Q: Do you have any key mentors or people who deeply influenced who you are, what you believe in and what you re committed to in your work and life?PP: There are strong black women in my life. They have all lived challenging and yet fulfilling lives. They always tell me the truth, they believe in me and see things in me that I often cannot see in myself. They are my mentors, my influencers and always in the stands rooting for me. I am because they are.Q: If you could speak to yourself as a 10-year-old, what would you tell yourself?PP: I would tell myself to play more sport and not to be so self-conscious. I would convince myself to lighten up and break a few rules!Q: What is your proudest achievement to date?PP: When I did my very first radio broadcast. I honestly thought I would die. It s the most nervous I ve ever been in my entire life. But I did it and made it out alive. Granted it wasn t my finest work and many people told me as such but I did it and I m ever so proud of myself.Q: What do you work towards in your free time?PP: Free time? What s that? I love to read and write and I try to do both as often as I can. I collect cookbooks and spend hours on end watching cooking shows, listening to podcasts and tending to my hanging plant baskets.Q: If you are sitting where you are a year from now celebrating what a great year it s been for you at Capitalk FM, what have you achieved?PP: In a year I hope to have found my comfortable space and to be authentically me. I hope to make good on the faith that all the people who got me here had in me. In terms of Capitalk . . . well, just wait and see.