Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter FORMER Premiership side Buffaloes face another stern test against ZIFA Eastern Region Division One League seasoned campaigners Mutoko FC at Sakubva this afternoon. Chido Mudzinganyama, the Mutoko FC director, believes they have the arsenal to stand the heat. It is difficult that we will be playing a side which we don t know much about but we are confident we will do well, he said. The game will be difficult but we will do our best, especially after last week s defeat, and we are not going to leave anything to chance. We have a team that is hungry for results and they give their all until the final whistle. We will also be banking on our away record which is good and the players we recruited this year are very enthusiastic. We have resorted to taking players from the local community and that is working well for us there is a lot of talent in Mutoko. League chairman Davidson Muchena has hailed the start of the 2017 season and expects fireworks. I think we are going to witness one of the most competitive season. The teams are fulfilling their fixtures which is healthy for the league, said Muchena.Eastern Region FixturesTodayUnited Lions v Renco Mine (Mucheke), Mutare City Rovers v Gutu Mpandawana (Sakubva), Prime Rangers v Bikita Minerals Abattoirs (Ruwa), Melfort v Africa Trust (Madhaka), Black Eagles v Mwenezana (Birchenough),TomorrowSurrey v Mukanya Bullets (Surrey), Bufalloes v FC Mutoko (Sakubva), Mucheke Pirates v Tenax (Mucheke).Northern Region FixturesTrojan Stars v Chitungwiza Municipality (Trojan Mine), Blue Swallows v Cranborne Bullets (Manyame), Mushowani Stars v Banket United (Chaminuka), Ngezi U-19 v Harare City Cubs (Pfupajena), Darwin United v Chegutu Pirates (Pfura), Karoi United v Mufakose (Chikangwe), ZRP FC v Herantals (Morris), v Shamva United v Golden Valley (CIVO).Southern Region FixturesTodayCasmyn v Bosso 90 (Turk Mine), Talen Vision v ZPC Hwange (Luveve), Mosi Rovers v Vic Falls Tigers (Vic Falls), ZRP Byo Province v Makomo (Fair Bridge), Zim Leopards v Amagagasi (White City).Tomorrow Bulawayo Chiefs v Chiwororo (Hartsfield).Central Region FixturesZRP Gwanda v Ivan Hoe Mine (Pelandaba), Makusha v Chrome Stars (Makusha), Kwekwe Stars v Silo United (Mbizo), Nichrut v Vumbachkwe (Peak Mine), Tongogara v Whawha (Battle Fields).TomorrowFC Platinum U-19 v Gwanda United (Mandava), ZPC Munyati v TelOne (Munyati), Blanket Mine v MSU ( Blanket), Border Strikers v Black Eagles (Dulivhadzimu).