LONDON. &#8211; Tottenham boss Mauricio Pochettino praised his team s maturity after keeping the English Premier League soccer title race open with their win over Arsenal. Dele Alli scored his 17th league goal of the season and Harry Kane netted from the penalty spot three minutes later as Pochettino s team eased to a 2-0 victory on Sunday.Chelsea s impressive 3-0 win at Everton earlier on Super Sunday put the pressure on Spurs, but they responded to ensure the gap to top spot remains four points.Spurs fell away tamely in the closing weeks of last season s title race, taking just two points from their last four games, but Pochettino thinks that experience has made his team mentally stronger. It was a fantastic reaction it s important to keep focused on our game, Pochettino told Sky Sports. We can say we re more mature than last season. This team tries to win games and be better than the opponent. Today was another chance to see the team learn and improve. The victory also means Spurs are guaranteed to finish above Arsenal in the Premier League for the first time since 1995. It was a fantastic afternoon &#8211; I m very happy for players and fans in the last derby here at White Hart Lane, Pochettino added. It was so emotional. I must say congratulations to the players and fans as this season so far has been fantastic. We tried to pay back all the effort and energy the fans have given us &#8211; home and away. We fully deserved the victory. Also, to close the gap on Chelsea was the most important thing. With four matches remaining in the title race, Pochettino s side can close the gap to Chelsea to one point if they win at West Ham on Friday night.Antonio Conte s league leaders then face Middlesbrough at Stamford Bridge next Monday night.When asked if Spurs can catch Chelsea, the Tottenham boss replied: I think we are still in the race. It will be difficult but our aim is to win the next game &#8211; we will see what happens. Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger congratulated Tottenham Hotspur after they won the last-ever North London derby at White Hart Lane 2-0 to ensure they would finish above the Gunners for the first time since 1995. &#8211; Sky Sports.